# Geometric Perspective: the Complex Plane

You may recall that real numbers can be represented geometrically using the number line - a line on which each point represents a real number. You can extend this representation to include imaginary and complex numbers, which gives rise to an entirely different number line: the imaginary number line, which is orthogonal to the real number line and only intersects with it at $0$.

A complex number has two components - a real component and an imaginary component. As you no doubt noticed from the exercises, these can be represented by two real numbers - the real component, and the real coefficient of the imaginary component. This allows you to map complex numbers onto a two-dimensional plane - the **complex plane**. The most common mapping is the obvious one: $a+bi$ can be represented by the point $(a,b)$ in the **Cartesian coordinate system**.

This mapping allows you to apply complex arithmetic to geometry, and, more importantly, apply geometric concepts to complex numbers. Many properties of complex numbers become easier to understand when viewed through a geometric lens.

## Modulus

One such property is the **modulus operator**. This operator generalizes the **absolute value** operator on real numbers to the complex plane. Just like the absolute value of a number is its distance from $0$, the modulus of a complex number is its distance from $0+0i$. Using the distance formula, if $x=a+bi$, then:

$$|x| = \sqrt{a^2 + b^2}$$

There is also a slightly different, but algebraically equivalent definition:

$$|x| = \sqrt{x \cdot \overline{x}}$$

Like the conjugate, the modulus distributes over multiplication.

$$|x \cdot y| = |x| \cdot |y|$$

Unlike the conjugate, however, the modulus doesn't distribute over addition. Instead, the interaction of the two comes from the triangle inequality:

$$|x + y| \leq |x| + |y|$$
