# The Basics

There are certain properties common to all quantum gates. This section introduces those properties, using the $X$ gate as an example.

## Matrix Representation

Quantum gates are represented as $2^N \times 2^N$ unitary matrices, where $N$ is the number of qubits the gate operates on.
As a quick reminder, a unitary matrix is a square matrix whose inverse is its adjoint, thus $U^* U = UU^* = UU^{-1} = \mathbb{I}$.
Single-qubit gates are represented by $2 \times 2$ matrices.
The example for this section, the $X$ gate, is represented by the following matrix:

$$\begin{bmatrix} 0 & 1 \\ 1 & 0 \end{bmatrix}$$

You may recall that the state of a qubit is represented by a vector of size $2$. You can apply a gate to a qubit by multiplying the gate's matrix by the qubit's state vector. The result will be another vector, representing the new state of the qubit. For example, applying the $X$ gate to the computational basis states looks like this:

$$
X\ket{0} =
\begin{bmatrix} 0 & 1 \\ 1 & 0 \end{bmatrix}
\begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix} =
\begin{bmatrix} 0 \cdot 1 + 1 \cdot 0 \\ 1 \cdot 1 + 0 \cdot 0 \end{bmatrix} =
\begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix}
$$

$$
X\ket{1} =
\begin{bmatrix} 0 & 1 \\ 1 & 0 \end{bmatrix}
\begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix} =
\begin{bmatrix} 0 \cdot 0 + 1 \cdot 1 \\ 1 \cdot 0 + 0 \cdot 1 \end{bmatrix} =
\begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix}
$$

The general case:

$$\ket{\psi} = \alpha\ket{0} + \beta\ket{1}$$

$$
X\ket{\psi} =
\begin{bmatrix} 0 & 1 \\ 1 & 0 \end{bmatrix}
\begin{bmatrix} \alpha \\ \beta \end{bmatrix} =
\begin{bmatrix} 0 \cdot \alpha + 1 \cdot \beta \\ 1 \cdot \alpha + 0 \cdot \beta \end{bmatrix} =
\begin{bmatrix} \beta \\ \alpha \end{bmatrix}
$$

> If you need a reminder of what $\ket{0}$, $\ket{1}$, and $\ket{\psi}$ mean, you can review the section on Dirac notation in "The Qubit" kata.

Quantum gates are represented by matrices, just like quantum states are represented by vectors. Because this is the most common way to represent quantum gates, the terms "gate" and "gate matrix" will be used interchangeably in this kata.

Applying several quantum gates in sequence is equivalent to performing several of these multiplications.
For example, if you have gates $A$ and $B$ and a qubit in state $\ket{\psi}$, the result of applying $A$ followed by $B$ to that qubit would be $B\big(A\ket{\psi}\big)$ (the gate closest to the qubit state gets applied first).
Matrix multiplication is associative, so this is equivalent to multiplying the $B$ matrix by the $A$ matrix, producing a compound gate of the two, and then applying that to the qubit: $\big(BA\big)\ket{\psi}$.

>Note that matrix multiplication isn’t commutative, thus $(BA) \neq (AB)$.

All quantum gates are reversible, that is, there exists another gate which will undo any given gate's transformation, returning the qubit to its original state.
This means that when dealing with quantum gates, information about qubit states is never lost, as opposed to classical logic gates, some of which destroy information.
Quantum gates are represented by unitary matrices, so the inverse of a gate is its adjoint; these terms are also used interchangeably in quantum computing.

## Effects on Basis States

There is a simple way to find out what a gate does to the two computational basis states $\ket{0}$ and $\ket{1}$. Consider an arbitrary gate:

$$A = \begin{bmatrix} \epsilon & \zeta \\ \eta & \mu \end{bmatrix}$$

Watch what happens when applying $A$ to these states:

$$
A\ket{0} =
\begin{bmatrix} \epsilon & \zeta \\ \eta & \mu \end{bmatrix}
\begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix} =
\begin{bmatrix} \epsilon \cdot 1 + \zeta \cdot 0 \\ \eta \cdot 1 + \mu \cdot 0 \end{bmatrix} =
\begin{bmatrix} \epsilon \\ \eta \end{bmatrix} = \epsilon\ket{0} + \eta\ket{1}
$$

$$
A\ket{1} =
\begin{bmatrix} \epsilon & \zeta \\ \eta & \mu \end{bmatrix}
\begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix} =
\begin{bmatrix} \epsilon \cdot 0 + \zeta \cdot 1 \\ \eta \cdot 0 + \mu \cdot 1 \end{bmatrix} =
\begin{bmatrix} \zeta \\ \mu \end{bmatrix} = \zeta\ket{0} + \mu\ket{1}
$$

Notice that applying the $A$ gate to the $\ket{0}$ state transforms it into the state written as the first column of the gate's matrix. Likewise, applying the $A$ gate to the $\ket{1}$ state transforms it into the state written as the second column. This holds true for any quantum gate, including, of course, the $X$ gate:

$$X = \begin{bmatrix} 0 & 1 \\ 1 & 0 \end{bmatrix}$$

$$X\ket{0} = \begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix} = \ket{1}$$

$$X\ket{1} = \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix} = \ket{0}$$

Once you understand how a gate affects the computational basis states, you can easily find how it affects any state.
Recall that any qubit state vector can be written as a linear combination of the basis states:

$$\ket{\psi} = \begin{bmatrix} \alpha \\ \beta \end{bmatrix} = \alpha\ket{0} + \beta\ket{1}$$

Because matrix multiplication distributes over addition, once you know how a gate affects those two basis states, you can calculate how it affects any state:

$$X\ket{\psi} = X\big(\alpha\ket{0} + \beta\ket{1}\big) = X\big(\alpha\ket{0}\big) + X\big(\beta\ket{1}\big) = \alpha X\ket{0} + \beta X\ket{1} = \alpha\ket{1} + \beta\ket{0}$$

That is, applying a gate to a qubit in superposition is equivalent to applying that gate to the basis states that make up that superposition and adding the results with appropriate weights.
