# Ket-Bra Representation

There is another way to represent quantum gates, this time using Dirac notation. However, kets aren't enough to represent arbitrary matrices. An additional notation is required: the **bra** (this is why Dirac notation is sometimes called **bra-ket notation**).

Recall that kets represent column vectors; a bra is a ket's row vector counterpart. For any ket $\ket{\psi}$, the corresponding bra is its adjoint (conjugate transpose): $\bra{\psi} = \ket{\psi}^\dagger$.

Some examples:

<div class="table-with-latex">
  <table>
    <tr>
      <th>Ket</th>
      <th>Bra</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>$\ket{0} = \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix}$</td>
      <td>$\bra{0} = \begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 \end{bmatrix}$</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>$\ket{1} = \begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix}$</td>
      <td>$\bra{1} = \begin{bmatrix} 0 & 1 \end{bmatrix}$</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>$\ket{i} = \begin{bmatrix} \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \\ \frac{i}{\sqrt{2}} \end{bmatrix}$</td>
      <td>$\bra{ i} = \begin{bmatrix} \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} & -\frac{i}{\sqrt{2}} \end{bmatrix}$</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>$\ket{\psi} = \begin{bmatrix} \alpha \\ \beta \end{bmatrix}$</td>
      <td>$\bra{\psi} = \begin{bmatrix} \overline{\alpha} & \overline{\beta} \end{bmatrix}$</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>$\ket{\psi} = \alpha\ket{0} + \beta\ket{1}$</td>
      <td>$\bra{\psi} = \overline{\alpha}\bra{0} + \overline{\beta}\bra{1}$</td>
    </tr>
  </table>
</div>

Kets and bras give us a neat way to express inner and outer products. The inner product of $\ket{\phi}$ and $\ket{\psi}$ is the matrix product of $\bra{\phi}$ and $\ket{\psi}$, denoted as $\braket{\phi|\psi}$, and their outer product is the matrix product of $\ket{\phi}$ and $\bra{\psi}$, denoted as $\ket{\phi}\bra{\psi}$. Notice that the norm of $\ket{\psi}$ is $\sqrt{\braket{\psi|\psi}}$.

This leads to the representation of matrices via outer products. Recall that the outer product of two vectors of the same size produces a square matrix. You can use a linear combination of several outer products of simple vectors (such as basis vectors) to express any square matrix. For example, the $X$ gate can be expressed as follows:

$$X = \ket{0}\bra{1} + \ket{1}\bra{0}$$

$$
\ket{0}\bra{1} + \ket{1}\bra{0} =
\begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix}\begin{bmatrix} 0 & 1 \end{bmatrix} +
\begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix}\begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 \end{bmatrix} =
\begin{bmatrix} 0 & 1 \\ 0 & 0 \end{bmatrix} + \begin{bmatrix} 0 & 0 \\ 1 & 0 \end{bmatrix} =
\begin{bmatrix} 0 & 1 \\ 1 & 0 \end{bmatrix}
$$

This representation can be used to carry out calculations in Dirac notation without ever switching back to matrix representation:

$$X\ket{0} = \big(\ket{0}\bra{1} + \ket{1}\bra{0}\big)\ket{0} = \ket{0}\braket{1|0} + \ket{1}\braket{0|0} = \ket{0}\big(\braket{1|0}\big) + \ket{1}\big(\braket{0|0}\big) = \ket{0}(0) + \ket{1}(1) = \ket{1}$$

> That last step may seem a bit confusing. Recall that $\ket{0}$ and $\ket{1}$ form an **orthonormal basis**. That is, they're both normalized, and they're orthogonal to each other.
>
> A vector is normalized if its norm is equal to $1$, which only happens if its inner product with itself is equal to $1$. This means that $\braket{0|0} = \braket{1|1} = 1$
>
> Two vectors are orthogonal to each other if their inner product equals $0$. This means that $\braket{0|1} = \braket{1|0} = 0$.

In general case, a matrix
$$A = \begin{bmatrix} a_{00} & a_{01} \\ a_{10} & a_{11} \end{bmatrix}$$
will have the following ket-bra representation:
$$A = a_{00} \ket{0}\bra{0} + a_{01} \ket{0}\bra{1} + a_{10} \ket{1}\bra{0} + a_{11} \ket{1}\bra{1}$$
