# Distinguish Two States Given by Two Arrays of Bit Strings

**Inputs:**

* $N$ qubits (stored in an array of length $N$) which are guaranteed to be in one of the two superposition states described by the given arrays of bit strings.
* Two arrays of bit strings represented as `Bool[][]`s.
  The arrays describe the superposition states in the same way as in the previous task, i.e. they have dimensions $M_1 \times N$ and $M_2 \times N$ respectively, $N$ being the number of qubits.

The only constraint on the bit strings is that **all bit strings in the two arrays are distinct**.

**Output:**
* 0 if qubits were in the superposition state described by the first array,
* 1 if they were in the superposition state described by the second array.

> For example, for bit strings `[[false, true, false], [false, false, true]]` and `[[true, true, true], [false, true, true]]` return 0 corresponds to state 
$\frac{1}{\sqrt2}\big(\ket{010} + \ket{001}\big)$, 
return 1 to state 
$\frac{1}{\sqrt2}\big(\ket{111} + \ket{011}\big)$.

**You can use as many measurements as you wish**. The state of the qubits at the end of the operation does not matter.

## Solution Notes

Because all the bit strings are guaranteed to be different and we are not limited in the number of measurements we can do, we can use a simpler solution than in the previous task.

When we measure all qubits of a certain superposition state, it collapses to one of the basis vectors that comprised the superposition. We can do exactly that and compare the resulting state to the given bit strings to see which array it belongs to.

We use the built-in library primitives. First, we measure the quantum register with respect to the standard computational basis, i.e., the eigenbasis of `PauliZ` using `MeasureInteger()` operation, which converts it to an integer.

Next, we convert each of the input bit strings to an integer using the `BoolArrayAsInt()` function. Both these functions use little-endian encoding when converting bits to integers.

Now that we have two integers, we can easily compare the measurement results to each of the bit strings in the first array to check whether they belong to it; if they do, we know we were given the first state, otherwise it was the second state.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    import Std.Convert.*;

    operation SuperpositionMeasurement(qs : Qubit[], bits1 : Bool[][], bits2 : Bool[][]) : Int {
        let measuredState = MeasureInteger(qs);
        for s in bits1 {
            if BoolArrayAsInt(s) == measuredState {
                return 0;
            }
        }

        return 1;
    }
}
```
