# |0〉, |+〉 or Inconclusive?

**Input:** A qubit which is guaranteed to be in either the $\ket{0}$ or the $\ket{+}$ state.
    
**Output:** 
* 0 if the qubit was in the $\ket{0}$ state, 
* 1 if it was in the $\ket{+}$ state,
* -1 if you can't decide, i.e., an "inconclusive" result. 

Your solution:

* should never give 0 or 1 answer incorrectly (i.e., identify $\ket{0}$ as 1 or $\ket{+}$ as 0),
* will be called multiple times, with one of the states picked with equal probability every time,
* may give an inconclusive (-1) answer in at most 80% of all the cases,
* must correctly identify the $\ket{0}$ state as 0 in at least 10% of all the cases,
* must correctly identify the $\ket{1}$ state as 1 in at least 10% of all the cases.
    
The state of the qubit at the end of the operation does not matter.
    
> This task is an example of unambiguous state discrimination.

## Solution Notes

A simple strategy that gives an inconclusive result with probability 0.75 and never errs in case it yields a conclusive result can be obtained from randomizing the choice of measurement basis between the computational basis and the Hadamard basis.
    
Notice that when measured in the standard basis, the state $\ket{0}$ will always lead to the outcome "0", and the state $\ket{+}$ will lead to outcomes "0" and "1" with probability $\frac12$ each. This means that if we measure "1", we can with certainty conclude that the state was $\ket{+}$.
    
A similar argument applies to the scenario where we measure in the Hadamard basis, where $\ket{0}$ can lead to both "+" and "-" outcomes, and $\ket{+}$ always leads to "+". Then if we measured "-", we can with certainty conclude that the state was $\ket{0}$.
    
This leads to the following scenarios (shown are the conditional probabilities
    of the resulting answers in each of the above scenarios).

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>State</th>
        <th>Basis</th>
        <th>P(0)</th>
        <th>P(1)</th>
        <th>P(-1)</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>$\ket{0}$</td>
        <td>Computational</td>
        <td>$0$</td>
        <td>$0$</td>
        <td>$1$</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>$\ket{+}$</td>
        <td>Computational</td>
        <td>$0$</td>
        <td>$\frac12$</td>
        <td>$\frac12$</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>$\ket{0}$</td>
        <td>Hadamard</td>
        <td>$\frac12$</td>
        <td>$0$</td>
        <td>$\frac12$</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>$\ket{+}$</td>
        <td>Hadamard</td>
        <td>$0$</td>
        <td>$0$</td>
        <td>$1$</td>
    </tr>
</table>

Since each of the four scenarios occurs with probability 25%, overall this strategy ends up correctly identifying $\ket{0}$ and $\ket{+}$ states with 12.5% probability each and giving inconclusive result with 75% probability.

> The easiest way to implement the measurement in the Hadamard basis in Q# is to apply an H gate followed by a regular measurement in computational basis.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    import Std.Random.*;
    operation IsQubitZeroPlusOrInconclusive(q : Qubit) : Int {
        // Pick a random basis
        let basis = DrawRandomInt(0, 1);
        if basis == 0 {
            // use standard basis
            let result = M(q);
            // result is One only if the state was |+⟩
            return result == One ? 1 | -1;
        } else {
            // use Hadamard basis
            H(q);
            let result = M(q);
            // result is One only if the state was |0⟩
            return result == One ? 0 | -1;
        }
    }
}
```
