# Distinguish Two Basis States Given by Bit Strings

**Inputs:**

1. $N$ qubits (stored in an array of length $N$) which are guaranteed to be in one of the two basis states described by the given bit strings.
2. Two bit strings represented as `Bool[]`s.

**Output:**

* 0 if the qubits were in the basis state described by the first bit string,
* 1 if they were in the basis state described by the second bit string.

Bit values `false` and `true` correspond to $\ket{0}$ and $\ket{1}$ states. You are guaranteed that both bit strings have the same length as the qubit array, and that the bit strings differ in at least one bit.

**You can use exactly one measurement.** The state of the qubits at the end of the operation does not matter.

> Example: for bit strings `[false, true, false]` and `[false, false, true]` return 0 corresponds to state $\ket{010}$, and return 1 corresponds to state $\ket{001}$.

## Solution Notes

To solve this task, we will use two steps. Like many other programming languages, Q# allows you to write functions to make code more readable and reusable.

The first step is to find first bit that differs between bit strings `bit1` and `bit2`. For that we define a function `FindFirstDiff()` which loops through both `Bool[]`s and returns the first index where the bit strings differ.

The second step is implementing the main operation: once we have found the first different bit, we measure the qubit in the corresponding position to see whether it is in state $\ket{0}$ or $\ket{1}$. If it is in state $\ket{0}$, `res` takes the value `false`, if it is in state $\ket{1}$ it takes the value `true`.

`res == bits1[firstDiff]` compares the measurement result with the bit of `bits1` in the differing position. This effectively checks if the qubits are in the basis state described by the first or by the second bit string. The two possible outcomes are:

1. The qubits are in the state described by the first bit string; then `res` will be equal to `bits1[firstDiff]` and the method will return `0`.
2. The qubits are in the state described by the second bit string; then `res` will be not equal to `bits1[firstDiff]` (we know it has to be equal to `bits2[firstDiff]` which does not equal `bits1[firstDiff]`), and the method will return `1`.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    function FindFirstDiff(bits1 : Bool[], bits2 : Bool[]) : Int {
        for i in 0 .. Length(bits1) - 1 {
            if bits1[i] != bits2[i] {
                return i;
            }
        }
        return -1;
    }

    operation TwoBitstringsMeasurement(qs : Qubit[], bits1 : Bool[], bits2 : Bool[]) : Int {
        let firstDiff = FindFirstDiff(bits1, bits2);
        let res = M(qs[firstDiff]) == One;

        return res == bits1[firstDiff] ? 0 | 1;
    }
}
```
