# Distinguish Two States Given by Two Arrays of Bit Strings in One Measurement

**Inputs:**

1. $N$ qubits (stored in an array of length $N$) which are guaranteed to be in one of the two superposition states described by the given arrays of bit strings.
2. Two arrays of bit strings represented as `Bool[][]`s.
The arrays have dimensions $M_1 \times N$ and $M_2 \times N$
 respectively, where $N$ is the number of qubits and $M_1$ and $M_2$ are the numbers of bit strings in each array. Note that in general $M_1 \neq M_2$.
An array of bit strings `[b₁, ..., bₘ]` defines a state that is an equal superposition of all basis states defined by bit strings $b_1, ..., b_m$.
For example, an array of bit strings `[[false, true, false], [false, true, true]]` defines a superposition state $\frac{1}{\sqrt2}\big(\ket{010} + \ket{011}\big)$.

You are guaranteed that there exists an index of a qubit Q for which:

* all the bit strings in the first array have the same value in this position (all `bits1[j][Q]` are the same),
* all the bit strings in the second array have the same value in this position (all `bits2[j][Q]` are the same),
* these values are different for the first and the second arrays.

**Output:**

* 0 if qubits were in the superposition state described by the first array,
* 1 if they were in the superposition state described by the second array.

> For example, for arrays `[[false, true, false], [false, true, true]]` and `[[true, false, true], [false, false, true]]` return 0 corresponds to state $\frac{1}{\sqrt2}\big(\ket{010} + \ket{011}\big)$, return 1 corresponds to state $\frac{1}{\sqrt2}\big(\ket{101} + \ket{001}\big)$, and you can distinguish these states perfectly by measuring the second qubit.

**You are allowed to use exactly one measurement.** The state of the qubits at the end of the operation does not matter.

## Solution Notes

Like in the previous solution, we are looking for the index Q where the two bit strings differ. Let's define a function `FindFirstSuperpositionDiff()` which searches for an index Q which has two properties:

1. The value of all arrays in `bits1` at the index Q is either `true` or `false`, and the value of all arrays in `bits2` at the index Q is either `true` or `false`. If this is not the case, you cannot be sure that measuring the corresponding qubit will always return the same result.
   > For example, if you are given the state $\frac{1}{\sqrt2}\big(\ket{010} + \ket{011}\big)$, and if you measure the third qubit, $50\%$ of the time you will get $0$ and $50\%$ of the time $1$, therefore to get reliable information you want to measure one of the first two qubits.

2. This value is different for `bits1` and `bits2`.
   > Indeed, if you want to distinguish states $\frac{1}{\sqrt2}\big(\ket{010} + \ket{011}\big)$ and $\frac{1}{\sqrt2}\big(\ket{000} + \ket{001}\big)$, there are two qubits that will produce a fixed measurement result for each state - the first one and the second one. However, measuring the first qubit will give $0$ for both states, while measuring the second qubit will give $1$ for the first state and $0$ for the second state, allowing to distinguish the states.

To do this, we will iterate over all qubit indices, and for each of them we'll calculate the number of 1s in that position in `bits1` and `bits2`.

1. The first condition means that this count should equal 0 (if all bit strings have 0 bit in this position) or the length of the array of bit strings (if all bit strings have 1 bit in this position).
2. The second condition means that this count is different for `bits1` and `bits2`, i.e., one of the counts should equal 0 and another one - the length of the corresponding array of bit strings.

The second step is very similar to the previous exercise: given the index we just found, we measure the qubit on that position.
Here we use the library function `ResultAsBool(M(qs[diff]))` that returns `true` if the measurement result is `One` and `false` if the result is `Zero`; a call to this library function is equivalent to comparison `M(qs[diff]) == One` that was used in the previous task.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    import Std.Convert.*;

    function FindFirstSuperpositionDiff(bits1 : Bool[][], bits2 : Bool[][], nQubits : Int) : Int {
        for i in 0..nQubits - 1 {
            // count the number of 1s in i-th position in bit strings of both arrays
            mutable val1 = 0;
            mutable val2 = 0;
            for j in 0..Length(bits1) - 1 {
                if bits1[j][i] {
                    set val1 += 1;
                }
            }
            for k in 0..Length(bits2) - 1 {
                if bits2[k][i] {
                    set val2 += 1;
                }
            }
            if (val1 == Length(bits1) and val2 == 0) or (val1 == 0 and val2 == Length(bits2)) {
                return i;
            }
        }

        return -1;
    }

    operation SuperpositionOneMeasurement(qs : Qubit[], bits1 : Bool[][], bits2 : Bool[][]) : Int {
        let diff = FindFirstSuperpositionDiff(bits1, bits2, Length(qs));

        let res = ResultAsBool(M(qs[diff]));

        if res == bits1[0][diff] {
            return 0;
        } else {
            return 1;
        }
    }
}
```
