# Is Vertex Coloring Valid? (Classical)

**Inputs:**

1. The number of vertices in the graph $V$ ($V \leq 6$).
2. An array of $E$ tuples of integers, representing the edges of the graph ($E \leq 12$).
Each tuple gives the indices of the start and the end vertices of the edge.
The vertices are numbered $0$ through $V - 1$.
3. An array of $V$ integers, representing the vertex coloring of the graph. 
The $i$-th element of the array is the color of the vertex number $i$.

For example, the graph `0 -- 1 -- 2` has $V = 3$ and `edges = [(0, 1), (1, 2)]`. 
Some of the valid colorings for it would be `[0, 1, 0]` and `[-1, 5, 18]`.
Notice that in this exercise, unlike in some of the later ones, the coloring is not limited to numbers from $0$ to $3$.

**Output:**
True if the given vertex coloring is valid (that is, no two vertices connected by an edge have the same color), and false otherwise.

## Solution Notes

A graph coloring is valid when the nodes connected by every edge have a different color. This means that we have to check every edge, see if the nodes have the same color, and if it is the case, return that the graph coloring is invalid. If every edge passed the test, we can safely say the graph coloring is valid.

Since the color of vertex $n$  is the $n$-th element of the `colors` array, we simply loop through every edge, which is a pair of vertex indices, and compare their colors.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    function IsVertexColoringValid(V : Int, edges: (Int, Int)[], colors: Int[]) : Bool {
        for (v0, v1) in edges {
            if colors[v0] == colors[v1] {
                return false;
            }
        }
        return true;
    }
}
```
