# Read Coloring From a Qubit Array

In this task, you need to read the coloring of an $V$-vertex graph stored in a qubit array.
This is the last step of Grover's search algorithm: performing measurements and interpreting the results as the potential solution to your problem.

**Inputs**:

  1. The number of bits in each color of the coloring $nBits$.
  2. An array of $V \cdot nBits$ qubits which are guaranteed to be in a basis state.

**Output**:

An array of $V$ $nBits$-bit integers that represent this basis state.
$i$-th integer of the array is stored in qubits with indices $i \cdot nBits$, $i \cdot nBits + 1$, ..., $(i + 1) \cdot nBits - 1$ in big-endian format. 

For example, the input $nBits = 2$ and basis state $\ket{000110}$ correspond to two-bit colors $00, 01, 10$, or, in decimal, $0, 1, 2$.

The operation should not change the state of the qubits.

## Solution Notes

The solution to this exercise consists of two parts:

1. Read an integer from an array of qubits of length `nBits`.
   Since you are guaranteed that the qubits in the array are in a basis state, simply measuring them will give you the necessary information and leave the state of the qubits unchanged. 
   You can use the library operation `MeasureEachZ` to measure each qubit in the array without resetting it to the $\ket{0}$ state afterwards. 
   Then, you can convert the array of measurement results to an integer using the function `ResultArrayAsInt`.
   Note that this function does the conversion from a little endian binary encoding, and the exercise asks for the colors to be represented in big endian, so you need to reverse the array of measurement results using the function `Reversed`.
2. Split the given array of qubits into chunks of length `nBits` and read an integer from each of them.
   A convenient library function `Chunks` does exactly that, splitting the array into chunks of the given length.
   Finally, you can apply the integer readout operation to each chunk using the operation `ForEach`.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    import Std.Arrays.*;
    import Std.Convert.*;

    operation ReadColoring(nBits : Int, qs : Qubit[]) : Int[] {
        let colorPartitions = Chunks(nBits, qs);
        let measureColor = qs => ResultArrayAsInt(Reversed(MeasureEachZ(qs)));
        return ForEach(measureColor, colorPartitions);
    }
}
```
