# Are Colors Equal?

**Inputs:**

1. An array of $nBits$ qubits in an arbitrary state $\ket{x_0}$ representing the first color.
2. An array of $nBits$ qubits in an arbitrary state $\ket{x_1}$ representing the second color.
3. A qubit in an arbitrary state $\ket{y}$ (output/target qubit).

**Goal:**
Implement a quantum oracle which checks whether the two given colors are equal.
In other words, flip the state of qubit $\ket{y}$ if $x_0 = x_1$, and leave it unchanged otherwise.
    
Leave the qubits in the input register in the same state they started in.
Your solution should work on inputs in superposition, and not use any measurements.

## Solution Notes

The goal is to flip the qubit $\ket{y}$ if and only if each of the matching pairs of qubits in the arrays `x0` and `x1` are in the same state.

You can check whether two qubits are in the same state by computing their $\textrm{XOR}$: if their state was the same, their $\textrm{XOR}$ will be $0$. You can use the $\textrm{CNOT}$ gate to compute $\textrm{XOR}$ of two qubits in place, for example, using the qubit of the array `x0` as the control and the qubit of the array `x1` as the target.

Once you've used $nBits$ $\textrm{CNOT}$ gates to compute all pairwise $\textrm{XOR}$'s, you'll need to flip the target qubit $\ket{y}$ only if all  qubits in `x1` are in the $\ket{0}$ state. 
This can be done by using zero-controlled $X$ gate, that is, `ApplyControlledOnInt(0, X, x1, y)`.

Finally, you need to uncompute the bitwise $\textrm{XOR}$'s to ensure that the qubits in `x1` are returned to their original state.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    operation Oracle_ColorEquality(x0 : Qubit[], x1 : Qubit[], y : Qubit) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        within {
            for i in 0..Length(x0) - 1 {
                CNOT(x0[i], x1[i]);
            }
        } apply {
            ApplyControlledOnInt(0, X, x1, y);
        }
    }
}
```
