# Is Vertex Coloring Valid? (Quantum)

**Inputs:**

1. The number of vertices in the graph $V$ ($V \leq 6$).
2. An array of $E$ tuples of integers, representing the edges of the graph ($E \leq 12$).
Each tuple gives the indices of the start and the end vertices of the edge.
The vertices are numbered $0$ through $V - 1$.
3. An array of $2V$ qubits in an arbitrary state $\ket{x}$ representing the assigned coloring of the vertices using four colors ($nBits = 2$) in the same format as in the exercise "Read Coloring From a Qubit Array".
4. A qubit in an arbitrary state $\ket{y}$ (output/target qubit).

For example, the graph `0 -- 1 -- 2` has $V = 3$ and `edges = [(0, 1), (1, 2)]`. 
The color assignments for this graph are represented with $6$ qubits.
Some of the valid colorings are $\ket{000110}$ (vertices `0, 1, 2` assigned colors `0, 1, 2`) and $\ket{011001}$ (vertices `0, 1, 2` assigned colors `1, 2, 1`).

**Goal:**
Implement a quantum oracle which checks whether the given coloring of this graph is a valid vertex coloring,
that is, whether the colors assigned to each pair of vertices connected with an edge are different.
    
Leave the qubits in the input register in the same state they started in.
Your solution should work on inputs in superposition, and not use any measurements.

## Solution Notes

You need to allocate an array of auxiliary qubits, one for each edge of the graph, that will have their states flipped if the vertices connected by the corresponding edge have the same color. 
This can be done easily using with the operation `Oracle_ColorEquality` from the previous task. 

Then, you need to check if these auxiliary qubits are still in state $\ket{0...0}$; if they are, all the necessary pairs of colors are distinct, the coloring is valid.

Since the coloring is provided as an array of qubits, with two qubits per vertex (2 qubits = 4 basis states = 4 colors), you have to take the correct chunks of the coloring to extract the color of each vertex. You can deduce that the coloring of vertex $j$ is encoded in qubits in positions $2j$ and $2j+1$.

Make sure to uncompute the changes to the auxiliary qubits after you evaluate the final result to leave them clean before their release.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    operation Oracle_VertexColoring(V : Int, edges: (Int, Int)[], x : Qubit[], y : Qubit) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        let edgesNumber = Length(edges);
        use conflicts = Qubit[edgesNumber];
        within {
            for i in 0 .. edgesNumber - 1 {
                let (v0, v1) = edges[i];
                Oracle_ColorEquality(x[2 * v0 .. 2 * v0 + 1], 
                                     x[2 * v1 .. 2 * v1 + 1], conflicts[i]);
            }
        } apply {
            ApplyControlledOnInt(0, X, conflicts, y);
        }
    }

    operation Oracle_ColorEquality(x0 : Qubit[], x1 : Qubit[], y : Qubit) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        within {
            for i in 0..Length(x0) - 1 {
                CNOT(x0[i], x1[i]);
            }
        } apply {
            ApplyControlledOnInt(0, X, x1, y);
        }
    }
}
```
