# Is One-Vertex Weak Coloring Valid? (Quantum)

**Inputs:**

1. The number of vertices in the graph $V$ ($V \leq 6$).
2. An array of $E$ tuples of integers, representing the edges of the graph ($E \leq 12$).
Each tuple gives the indices of the start and the end vertices of the edge.
The vertices are numbered $0$ through $V - 1$.
3. An array of $2V$ qubits in an arbitrary state $\ket{x}$ representing the assigned coloring of the vertices using four colors ($nBits = 2$) in the same format as in the exercise "Read Coloring From a Qubit Array".
4. A qubit in an arbitrary state $\ket{y}$ (output/target qubit).
5. An index of a vertex in the graph between $0$ and $V - 1$, inclusive.

**Goal:**
Implement a quantum oracle which checks whether the given vertex is weakly colored in the given coloring of the given graph,
that is, whether it is either isolated or is connected to at least one vertex of a different color.
    
Leave the qubits in the input register in the same state they started in.
Your solution should work on inputs in superposition, and not use any measurements.

## Solution Notes

To implement this check, you need to start by counting the vertices connected to the given vertex 
and allocating an array of auxiliary qubits, one for each neighboring vertex. These qubits will have their states flipped if the vertices connected by the corresponding edge have the same color. 
This can be done easily using with the operation `Oracle_ColorEquality` from an earlier task, similarly to how you did in when validating the vertex coloring of the graph. 

Now, for the coloring of the vertex to be valid, it needs to either have no neighbors, or to have at least one neighbor of a different color, so the array of auxiliary qubits should be in any state but $\ket{1...1}$. To implement this, you can flip the target qubit $\ket{y}$ unconditionally using the $X$ gate, and then flip it again only if qubits are in state $\ket{1...1}$.

Make sure to uncompute the changes to the auxiliary qubits after you evaluate the final result to leave them clean before their release.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    import Std.Arrays.*;

    operation Oracle_WeakColoring_OneVertex(
        V : Int,
        edges : (Int, Int)[],
        x : Qubit[],
        y : Qubit,
        vertex : Int
    ) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        let neighborEdges = Filtered((a, b) -> a == vertex or b == vertex, edges);
        let nNeighbors = Length(neighborEdges);
        use sameColorChecks = Qubit[nNeighbors];
        within {
            for ((a, b), checkQubit) in Zipped(neighborEdges, sameColorChecks) {
                Oracle_ColorEquality(
                    x[a * 2 .. a * 2 + 1],
                    x[b * 2 .. b * 2 + 1],
                    checkQubit
                );
            }
        } apply {
            X(y);
            if nNeighbors > 0 {
                Controlled X(sameColorChecks, y);
            }
        }
    }

    operation Oracle_ColorEquality(x0 : Qubit[], x1 : Qubit[], y : Qubit) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        within {
            for i in 0..Length(x0) - 1 {
                CNOT(x0[i], x1[i]);
            }
        } apply {
            ApplyControlledOnInt(0, X, x1, y);
        }
    }
}
```
