# Bell State Change 3

**Input:** Two entangled qubits in Bell state $\ket{\Phi^{+}} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \big(\ket{00} + \ket{11}\big)$.

**Goal:**  Change the two-qubit state, without adding a global phase, to $\ket{\Psi^{-}} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \big(\ket{01} - \ket{10}\big)$.

## Solution Notes

You have seen in the Single-Qubit Gates kata that the Pauli Z gate leaves the sign of the $\ket{0}$ component of the single qubit superposition unchanged but flips the sign of the $\ket{1}$ component of the superposition. You have also just seen in "Bell State Change 2" how to change our input state to the state $\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \big(\ket{01} + \ket{10}\big)$, which is almost your goal state (disregarding the phase change for the moment). So it would seem that a combination of these two gates will be what you need here. The remaining question is in what order to apply them, and to which qubit.

First of all, which qubit? Looking back at the task "Bell state change 2", it seems clear that you need to use qubit `qs[0]`, like you did there.

Second, in what order should you apply the gates? Remember that the Pauli Z gate flips the phase of the $\ket{1}$ component of the superposition and leaves the $\ket{0}$ component alone.
Let's experiment with applying $X$ gate to `qs[0]` first. Looking at our "halfway answer" state $\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \big(\ket{01} + \ket{10}\big)$, you can see that if you apply the $Z$ gate to `qs[0]`, it'll leave the $\ket{0_{A}}$ alone but flip the phase of $\ket{1_{A}}$ to $-\ket{1_{A}}$, thus flipping the phase of the $\ket{11}$ component of our Bell state.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    operation BellStateChange3(qs : Qubit[]) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        X(qs[0]);
        Z(qs[0]);
    }
}
```
