# Multi-Qubit Systems

The Qubit kata discussed the concept of a qubit - the basic building block of a quantum computer.
A multi-qubit system is a collection of multiple qubits, treated as a single system.

Let's start by examining a system of two classical bits. Each bit can be in two states: $0$ and $1$. Therefore, a system of two bits can be in four different states: $00$, $01$, $10$, and $11$. Generally, a system of $N$ classical bits can be in any of the $2^N$ states.

A system of $N$ qubits can also be in any of the $2^N$ classical states, but, unlike the classical bits, it can also be in a **superposition** of all these states.

Similarly to single-qubit systems, a state of an $N$-qubit system can be represented as a complex vector of size $2^N$:
$$\begin{bmatrix} x_0 \\ x_1 \\ \vdots \\ x_{2^N-1}\end{bmatrix}$$

## Basis States

Similarly to single-qubit systems, multi-qubit systems have their own sets of basis states.
The computational basis for an $N$-qubit system is a set of $2^N$ vectors, in each of which with one element equals $1$, and the other elements equal $0$.

For example, this is the **computational basis** for a two-qubit system:

$$\begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \\ 0 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix},
\begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 1 \\ 0 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix},
\begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 0 \\ 1 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix},
\begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 0 \\ 0 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix}$$

It's easy to see that these vectors form an orthonormal basis. Note that each of these basis states can be represented as a tensor product of some combination of single-qubit basis states:

<table>
    <tr>
        <td>$\begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \\ 0 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix} \otimes \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix}$</td>
        <td>$\begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 1 \\ 0 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix} \otimes \begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix}$</td>
        <td>$\begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 0 \\ 1 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix} \otimes \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix}$</td>
        <td>$\begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 0 \\ 0 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix} \otimes \begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix}$</td>
    </tr>
</table>

Any two-qubit system can be expressed as some linear combination of those tensor products of single-qubit basis states.

Similar logic applies to systems of more than two qubits. In general case,

$$
\begin{bmatrix} x_0 \\ x_1 \\ \vdots \\ x_{2^N-1} \end{bmatrix} =
x_0 \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \\ \vdots \\ 0 \end{bmatrix} +
x_1 \begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 1 \\ \vdots \\ 0 \end{bmatrix} + \dotsb +
x_{2^N-1} \begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 0 \\ \vdots \\ 1 \end{bmatrix}
$$

The coefficients of the basis vectors define how "close" is the system state to the corresponding basis vector.

> Just like with single-qubit systems, there exist other orthonormal bases states for multi-qubit systems. An example for a two-qubit system is the **Bell basis**:
>
> $$\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \\ 0 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix},
\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \\ 0 \\ -1 \end{bmatrix},
\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 1 \\ 1 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix},
\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 1 \\ -1 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix}$$
>
> You can check that these vectors are normalized, and orthogonal to each other, and that any two-qubit state can be expressed as a linear combination of these vectors.  The vectors of Bell basis, however, can't be represented as tensor products of single-qubit basis states.
