# Entanglement

Sometimes, quantum states can't be written as individual qubit states. Quantum systems that aren't separable are called **entangled** systems. If a state can be written as the product state of the individual subsystems, that state isn't entangled.

Entanglement is a quantum correlation, which is very different from classical correlations. In entanglement, the state of the subsystems isn't determined, and you can talk only about the probabilities associated with the outcomes. The global system must be considered as one.

> For example, every state in the Bell basis is an entangled state.

Entanglement is a huge part of what makes quantum computing so powerful. It allows us to link the qubits so that they stop behaving like individuals and start behaving like a large, more complex system. In entangled systems, measuring one of the qubits modifies the state of the other qubits, and tells us something about their state.

For example, consider two qubits $A$ and $B$ in superposition such that the state of the global system is

$$\ket{\psi}_{AB} = \frac{1}{\sqrt2}\ket{00} + \frac{1}{\sqrt2}\ket{11}$$

In such a state, only two outcomes are possible when you measure the state of both qubits in the standard basis: $\ket{00}$ and $\ket{11}$. Notice that each outcome has the same probability of $\frac{1}{2}$. There's zero probability of obtaining $\ket{01}$ and $\ket{10}$. If you measure the first qubit and you get that it is in $\ket{0}$ state, then you can be positive that the second qubit is also in $\ket{0}$ state, even without measuring it. The measurement outcomes are correlated, and the qubits are entangled.

This property is used extensively in many quantum algorithms.
