# Dirac Notation

Just like with single qubits, Dirac notation provides a useful shorthand for writing down states of multi-qubit systems.

As you've seen earlier, multi-qubit systems have their own canonical bases, and the basis states can be represented as tensor products of single-qubit basis states. Any multi-qubit system can be represented as a linear combination of these basis states:

$$
\begin{bmatrix} x_0 \\ x_1 \\ x_2 \\ x_3 \end{bmatrix} =
x_0\begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \\ 0 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix} +
x_1\begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 1 \\ 0 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix} +
x_2\begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 0 \\ 1 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix} +
x_3\begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 0 \\ 0 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix} =
x_0\ket{0} \otimes \ket{0} +
x_1\ket{0} \otimes \ket{1} +
x_2\ket{1} \otimes \ket{0} +
x_3\ket{1} \otimes \ket{1}
$$

To simplify this, tensor products of basis states have their own notation:

$$\ket{0} \otimes \ket{0} = \ket{00}$$
$$\ket{0} \otimes \ket{1} = \ket{01}$$
$$\ket{1} \otimes \ket{0} = \ket{10}$$
$$\ket{1} \otimes \ket{1} = \ket{11}$$

$$\ket{0} \otimes \ket{0} \otimes \ket{0} = \ket{000}$$

And so on.

Or, more generally:

$$\ket{i_0} \otimes \ket{i_1} \otimes \dotsb \otimes \ket{i_n} = \ket{i_0i_1...i_n}$$

Using this notation simplifies the example:

$$
\begin{bmatrix} x_0 \\ x_1 \\ x_2 \\ x_3 \end{bmatrix} =
x_0\ket{00} + x_1\ket{01} + x_2\ket{10} + x_3\ket{11}
$$

Just like with single qubits, you can put arbitrary symbols within the kets the same way variables are used in algebra.
Whether a ket represents a single qubit or an entire system depends on the context.
Some ket symbols have a commonly accepted usage, such as the symbols for the Bell basis:

$$\ket{\Phi^+} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\big(\ket{00} + \ket{11}\big)$$
$$\ket{\Phi^-} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\big(\ket{00} - \ket{11}\big)$$
$$\ket{\Psi^+} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\big(\ket{01} + \ket{10}\big)$$
$$\ket{\Psi^-} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\big(\ket{01} - \ket{10}\big)$$

>## Endianness
>
> In classical computing, *endianness* refers to the order of bits (or bytes) when representing numbers in binary. You're probably familiar with the typical way of writing numbers in binary: $0 = 0_2$, $1 = 1_2$, $2 = 10_2$, $3 = 11_2$, $4 = 100_2$, $5 = 101_2$, $6 = 110_2$, etc. This is known as **big-endian format**. In big-endian format, the *most significant* bits come first. For example: $110_2 = 1 \cdot 4 + 1 \cdot 2 + 0 \cdot 1 = 4 + 2 = 6$.
>
> There is an alternate way of writing binary numbers - **little-endian format**. In little-endian format, the *least significant* bits come first. For example, $2$ would be written as $01$, $4$ as $001$, and $6$ as $011$. To put it another way, in little endian format, the number is written backwards compared to the big-endian format.
>
> In Dirac notation for multi-qubit systems, it's common to see integer numbers within the kets instead of bit sequences. What those numbers mean depends on the context - whether the notation used is big-endian or little-endian.
>
> Examples with a 3 qubit system:
>
> <table>
>    <tr>
>        <th>Integer Ket</th>
>        <td>$\ket{0}$</td>
>        <td>$\ket{1}$</td>
>        <td>$\ket{2}$</td>
>        <td>$\ket{3}$</td>
>        <td>$\ket{4}$</td>
>        <td>$\ket{5}$</td>
>        <td>$\ket{6}$</td>
>        <td>$\ket{7}$</td>
>    </tr>
>    <tr>
>        <th>Big-endian</th>
>        <td>$\ket{000}$</td>
>        <td>$\ket{001}$</td>
>        <td>$\ket{010}$</td>
>        <td>$\ket{011}$</td>
>        <td>$\ket{100}$</td>
>        <td>$\ket{101}$</td>
>        <td>$\ket{110}$</td>
>        <td>$\ket{111}$</td>
>    </tr>
>    <tr>
>        <th>Little-endian</th>
>        <td>$\ket{000}$</td>
>        <td>$\ket{100}$</td>
>        <td>$\ket{010}$</td>
>        <td>$\ket{110}$</td>
>        <td>$\ket{001}$</td>
>        <td>$\ket{101}$</td>
>        <td>$\ket{011}$</td>
>        <td>$\ket{111}$</td>
>    </tr>
></table>
>
> Multi-qubit quantum systems that store superpositions of numbers are often referred to as **quantum registers**.
