# Multi-Qubit Systems in Q#

This demo shows you how to allocate multiple qubits in Q# and examine their joint state. It uses single-qubit gates for manipulating the individual qubit states - if you need a refresher on them, please review the Single-Qubit Gates kata.

These demos use the function `DumpMachine` to print the state of the quantum simulator.
When dealing with multi-qubit systems, `DumpMachine` prints information about each basis state that has a non-zero amplitude, one basis state per row, the same as it does for single-qubit systems.
The basis states are represented as bit strings, one bit per the qubit allocated, with the leftmost bit corresponding
to the qubit that was allocated the earliest. (If the qubits were allocated at once as an array, the leftmost bit corresponds
to the first element of the array.)

Source: MultiQubitSystems.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    import Std.Diagnostics.*;

    @EntryPoint()
    operation MultiQubitSystemsDemo() : Unit {
        // This allocates an array of 2 qubits, each of them in state |0⟩.
        // The overall state of the system is |00⟩.
        use qs = Qubit[2];
        // X gate changes the first qubit into state |1⟩.
        X(qs[0]);
        Message("The system in now in state |10⟩:");
        DumpMachine();

        // This changes the second qubit into state |+⟩ = (1/sqrt(2))(|0⟩ + |1⟩).
        H(qs[1]);
        Message("The system in now in state  (1/sqrt(2))(|10⟩ + |11⟩):");
        DumpMachine();

        // This changes the first qubit into state |-⟩ = (1/sqrt(2))(|0⟩ - |1⟩)
        H(qs[0]);
        Message("The system in now in state 0.5(|00⟩ + |01⟩ - |10⟩ - |11⟩):");
        DumpMachine();

        // The next lines entangle the qubits (don't worry about what exactly they do for now).
        H(qs[1]);
        CNOT(qs[0], qs[1]);
        Message("The system in now in entangled state (1/sqrt(2))(|00⟩ - |11⟩):");
        DumpMachine();

        // This returns the system into state |00⟩.
        ResetAll(qs);
    }
}
```

> You might have noticed that every demo has been "resetting" the qubits at the end of the code, that is, returning them to $\ket{0}$ state. Q# requires you to return your qubits into the $\ket{0}$ state before they are released at the end of their scope.
> The reason for this is entanglement.
>
> Consider running a program on a quantum computer: the number of qubits is very limited, and you want to reuse the released qubits in other parts of the program.
If they aren't in zero state by that time, they can potentially be still entangled with the qubits which aren't yet released, thus operations you perform on them can affect the state of other parts of the program, causing erroneous and hard to debug behavior.
>
> Resetting the qubits to zero state automatically when they go outside the scope of the block they were allocated in is dangerous as well: if they were entangled with others, measuring them to reset them can affect the state of the unreleased qubits, and thus change the results of the program - without the developer noticing this.
>
> The requirement that the qubits should be in zero state before they can be released aims to remind the developer to double-check that all necessary information has been properly extracted from the qubits, and that they aren't entangled with unreleased qubits any more.
