# Shor Code

Can we combine the lessons learned from the bit flip and phase flip error correction codes to be able to detect and correct both $X$ and $Z$ errors? In that case, we'd also be able to handle $Y$ errors as a combination of $X$ and $Z$ errors happening at the same time, and, as a result, we'll be able to detect and correct any arbitrary **single-qubit** error.

The Shor code, published in 1995, combines the approaches of the bit flip and phase flip codes.
It uses the following 9-qubit encoding for logical states:

$$\ket{0} \rightarrow \ket{0_L} = \frac1{2\sqrt2} (\ket{000} + \ket{111}) \otimes (\ket{000} + \ket{111}) \otimes (\ket{000} + \ket{111})$$
$$\ket{1} \rightarrow \ket{1_L} = \frac1{2\sqrt2} (\ket{000} - \ket{111}) \otimes (\ket{000} - \ket{111}) \otimes (\ket{000} - \ket{111})$$
$$\alpha \ket{0} + \beta \ket{1} \rightarrow \alpha \ket{0_L} + \beta \ket{1_L}$$

> Shor code was created as a *concatenation* of bit flip and phase flip codes. Encoding a qubit into its 9-qubit representation happens in two steps:
>
> 1. A qubit is encoded in three qubits using the phase flip code.
> 2. After that, each of those three qubits is encoded again using the bit flip code.
>
> Concatenation is a commonly used method of combining several error correction codes by encoding the qubit state using the first code, followed by encoding each qubit of the resulting state using the second code, and so on.

How can you detect and correct errors using Shor code?

### Detect and Correct X Errors

$X$ errors happening on any qubit manifest very similarly to the way they do in the bit flip code.
Let's consider the first triplet of qubits and an error that happens on any of the first three qubits.
Same as in the bit flip code, measuring the parity of pairs of qubits always returns $0$ if there is no error (since all bits in each basis state of the code words are the same), so a parity measurement returning $1$ on one or two pairs indicates an error, and the measurements which returned $1$ allow us to track down the qubit on which it happened.

To correct an $X$ error, you simply apply an $X$ gate to the affected qubit.

### Detect and Correct Z Errors

$Z$ errors in Shor code behave similarly to the way they do in the phase flip code, but the error detection and correction procedure has to be modified.

A $Z$ error happening on any qubit of a triplet flips the relative sign between the basis states $\ket{000}$ and $\ket{111}$ on those qubits. This means that you need a measurement that would compare relative signs of whole triplets, rather than individual qubits, allowing us to distinguish $(\ket{000} + \ket{111}) \otimes (\ket{000} + \ket{111})$ and $(\ket{000} - \ket{111}) \otimes (\ket{000} - \ket{111})$ (parts of valid code words) from $(\ket{000} + \ket{111}) \otimes (\ket{000} - \ket{111})$ and $(\ket{000} - \ket{111}) \otimes (\ket{000} + \ket{111})$ (parts of code words with a $Z$ error applied).

The measurement that allows you to do this is a 6-qubit measurement in the $X$ basis.

> How can you check this? Remember that doing a measurement in the $X$ basis is the same as applying Hadamard gates to each qubit and then doing a measurement in the $Z$ basis (and then applying Hadamard gates again).
>
> - If you apply Hadamard gates to each qubit of the state $\frac1{\sqrt2}(\ket{000} + \ket{111})$, you get the state
> $\frac12(\ket{000} + \ket{011} + \ket{101} + \ket{110})$. The parity of each basis state in it is $0$.
> - If you apply Hadamard gates to each qubit of the state $\frac1{\sqrt2}(\ket{000} - \ket{111})$, you get the state
> $\frac12(\ket{001} + \ket{010} + \ket{100} + \ket{111})$. The parity of each basis state in it is $1$.
>
> Thus, a 6-qubit measurement in the $X$ basis of two triplets, each either in the state $\frac1{\sqrt2}(\ket{000} + \ket{111})$ or $\frac1{\sqrt2}(\ket{000} - \ket{111})$, would produce parity $0$ if both triplets have the same relative sign between the basis states and $1$ if the relative sign is different.

To correct a $Z$ error, you can no longer simply apply a $Z$ gate to the affected qubit, since you can only figure out the triplet of qubits where the error happened, not the exact qubit. To work around this, you correct a $Z$ error by applying a $Z$ gate to each qubit of the affected triplet - and $Z$ gates applied to unaffected qubits just cancel each other out.
