# Noise in Classical and Quantum Systems

Any quantum system we can use to carry out quantum computation is inherently noisy.
Quantum noise can be caused by different physical processes, depending on the type of particle or device used as a qubit.
From the computation point of view, the presence of noise in the quantum system means that its state can suffer from random errors, and thus end up in a different state from the state you're relying on to do your computations.
This makes computations unreliable very fast, since the effects of noise accumulate quickly to make computation results effectively random.

Before diving into how to deal with noise in quantum systems, let's take a quick look at how to do that for classical systems.

The model used for analyzing classical noise is called a *binary symmetric channel*. In this model, the classical bits sent through the channel are transmitted correctly with probability $1-p$ and flipped with probability $p$. The error introduced if the bit is flipped is called a *bit flip error*.
In this scenario, the information sent through the channel can be protected against the effects of the noise, that is, bit flip errors, using the *repetition code*:

- On the sender side, for each bit you want to send, you create and send three copies of it:
$$0 \rightarrow 000, 1 \rightarrow 111$$
- On the receiver side, you decode the original bit by majority vote:
$$000, 100, 010, 001 \rightarrow 0$$
$$111, 011, 101, 110 \rightarrow 1$$

What is the probability of this scheme failure, that is, getting an incorrect value for the message bit after it was sent through the channel?
A majority vote allows for one error on any of the three bits to happen without affecting the decoding outcome, so it would take two or three errors happening on individual bits for decoding to produce an incorrect result. The probability of this happening is $3p^2(1-p) + p^3 = 3p^2 - 2p^3$. If you compare this with the probability of an individual bit transmission failing $p$, you can see that using the repetition code yields higher success probability, as long as $p < \frac12$. You can improve success probability further by increasing the number of repetitions you use to encode each bit: $5$ repetitions allow us to detect and correct $2$ errors, $7$ repetitions can correct $3$ errors, and so on.

> This noise model is useful not only for describing noisy communication channels, but also for memory - any classical system that introduces errors in information when it is left on its own, as opposed to systems that introduce errors during information manipulation. Indeed, we assume that no errors are introduced as we copy the bits during encoding or read and compare their values during decoding.

The main idea of quantum error correction is the same as that for classical error correction: encode information with enough redundancy that we can recover the message even from the noisy transmission results.
Dealing with the noise in quantum systems is more challenging than in classical systems, though, due to the limitations imposed by their nature:

- **No cloning**: It's not possible to replicate the repetition code for quantum systems in a straightforward manner, by duplicating the quantum state several times, since the no-cloning theorem prohibits that.
- **Observing the system damages information**: Even if the no-cloning theorem didn't prohibit producing several copies of a quantum state, it wouldn't be possible to compare the states of the copies afterwards without damaging their state.
- **Errors are continuous**: Errors in quantum computing are much more complicated than bit flip errors in classical systems.

The simplest model used to analyze quantum noise is *quantum depolarizing channel*.
This model assumes that the channel transmits the qubit unchanged with probability $1-p$, and applies one of the Pauli gates $X$, $Y$, and $Z$ with probability $\frac{p}{3}$ each. The effects of the noise on each qubit transmitted are independent.

At first glance, this model seems to be limited, and not representative of the full spectrum of errors that can occur in a quantum system. Fortunately, it turns out that any errors on encoded states can be corrected by correcting only a discrete subset of errors - exactly the Pauli $X$, $Y$, and $Z$ errors! This is called *discretization of quantum errors*, and you'll see how it works later in this kata.

> For now, we assume that all errors are introduced by the channel, and the gates and measurements used for encoding and decoding procedures of a quantum error correction code are perfect and don't introduce any errors themselves. This is a useful assumption to get started with error correction, but in real life all gates and measurements are noisy, so eventually we'll need to modify this approach.
> *Fault-tolerant quantum computation* handles the more general scenario of performing computations on encoded states in a way that tolerates errors introduced by noisy gates and measurements.
