# Joint Measurements

Quantum error correction is based on the use of a special kind of measurements - joint measurements in Pauli bases.
You can learn more about the single-qubit measurements in different Pauli bases in the Measurements in Single-Qubit Systems kata,
and the general case of joint measurements in the Measurements in Multi-Qubit Systems kata.
Let's take a closer look at the kinds of joint measurements you'll use in this kata.

A multi-qubit Pauli measurement on $n$ qubits corresponds to an operator $M_1 \otimes \dotsc \otimes M_n$, with each $M_j$ being from the set of gates $\{X,Y,Z,I\}$, and at least one of the $M_j$ is not the identity matrix. (If $M_j = I$, you can think of it as qubit $j$ not being involved in the measurement.) The measurement can produce one of the two outcomes: `Zero` corresponding to eigenvalue $+1$ of this operator, or `One` corresponding to the eigenvalue $-1$. The corresponding projection operators are the projections onto the corresponding eigenspaces. The operator $M_1 \otimes \dotsc \otimes M_n$ is referred to as the _measurement basis_.

For example, the first two joint measurements you'll encounter later in this kata are two-qubit measurements in $ZZ$ and $XX$ bases. They can be described as follows:

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Pauli Operator</th>
        <th>Eigenvalue</th>
        <th>Eigenvectors</th>
        <th>Measurement Projector</th>
        <th>Measurement Result in Q#</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td rowspan="2">$ZZ$</td>
        <td>$+1$</td>
        <td>$\ket{00}$, $\ket{11}$</td>
        <td>$\ket{00}\bra{00} + \ket{11}\bra{11}$</td>
        <td>Zero</td>
    </tr><tr>
        <td>$-1$</td>
        <td>$\ket{01}$, $\ket{10}$</td>
        <td>$\ket{01}\bra{01} + \ket{10}\bra{10}$</td>
        <td>One</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td rowspan="2">$XX$</td>
        <td>$+1$</td>
        <td>$\ket{++}$, $\ket{--}$</td>
        <td>$\ket{++}\bra{++} + \ket{--}\bra{--}$</td>
        <td>Zero</td>
    </tr><tr>
        <td>$-1$</td>
        <td>$\ket{+-}$, $\ket{-+}$</td>
        <td>$\ket{+-}\bra{+-} + \ket{-+}\bra{-+}$</td>
        <td>One</td>
    </tr>
</table>

In Q#, joint measurements in Pauli bases are implemented using the `Measure` operation.
The `Measure` operation takes two parameters: the array of `Pauli` constants (`PauliI`, `PauliX`, `PauliY`, or `PauliZ`) that define the basis for measurement, and the array of qubits to be measured.
