# The Problem

You are given a classical function that takes an $N$-bit string as an input and returns one bit: $f(x): \{0, 1\}^N \to \{0, 1\}$. You are guaranteed that the function $f$ is

- either *constant* (returns the same value for all inputs) 
- or *balanced* (returns value $0$ for half of the inputs and $1$ for the other half of the inputs). 

The task is to figure out whether the function is constant or balanced.

**Examples**

- $f(x) \equiv 0$ or $f(x) \equiv 1$ are constant functions (and they're actually the only constant functions in existence).
- $f(x) = x \bmod 2$ (the least significant bit of $x$) or $f(x) = 1 \text{ if the binary notation of }x \text{ has odd number of 1s and 0 otherwise}$ are examples of multi-bit balanced functions. Indeed, for both these functions you can check that for every possible input $x$ for which $f(x) = 0$ there exists an input $x^\prime$ (equal to $x$ with the least significant bit flipped) such that $f(x^\prime) = 1$, and vice versa, which means that the function is balanced.

If you solve this problem classically, how many calls to the given function will you need? 

The first call will give you no information - regardless of whether it returns $0$ or $1$, the function could still be constant or balanced.
In the best case scenario, the second call will return a different value. You'll be able to conclude that the function is balanced in just $2$ calls. 
However, if you get the same value for the first two calls, you'll have to keep querying the function until either the function returns a different value, or until you perform $2^{N-1}+1$ queries that return the same value - only in this case will you know with certainty that the function is constant.

What about the quantum scenario?
