# Multi-Qubit Oracles

In the quantum scenario, the classical function you're working with is implemented as a quantum oracle - a "black box" operation used as input to another algorithm. This operation is implemented in a way which allows you to perform calculations not only on individual inputs, but also on superpositions of inputs. 

To enable the oracle to act on quantum states instead of classical values, the integer input $x$ is represented in binary $x = (x_{0}, x_{1}, \dots, x_{N-1})$, 
and encoded into an $N$-qubit register: $\ket{\vec{x} } = \ket{x_{0} } \otimes \ket{x_{1} } \otimes \cdots \otimes \ket{x_{N-1} }$.
The phase oracle $U_f$ for this function is defined as follows:

$$U_f \ket{\vec{x} } = (-1)^{f(x)} \ket{\vec{x} }$$

The function $f$ can return only two values, 0 or 1, which result in no phase change or multiplication by a relative phase $-1$, respectively.

The effect of such an oracle on any single basis state isn't particularly interesting: it just adds a global phase which isn't something you can observe. However, if you apply this oracle to a *superposition* of basis states, its effect becomes noticeable. 
Remember that quantum operations are linear: if you define the effect of an operation on the basis states, you'll be able to deduce its effect on superposition states (which are just linear combinations of the basis states) using its linearity.

Let's see how to implement several examples of multi-bit constant and balanced functions as phase oracles in Q#.

1. $f(x) \equiv 0$

This is the easiest function to implement: if $f(x) \equiv 0$, 

$$U_f \ket{x} \equiv (-1)^0 \ket{x} = \ket{x}$$

This means that $U_f$ is an identity - a transformation which does absolutely nothing! 

2. $f(x) \equiv 1$

The second constant function is slightly trickier: if $f(x) \equiv 1$

$$U_f \ket{x} \equiv (-1)^1 \ket{x} = - \ket{x}$$

Now $U_f$ is a negative identity, that is, a transformation which applies a global phase of $-1$ to the state. 
A lot of algorithms just ignore the global phase accumulated in them, since it isn't observable. 
However, if you want to be meticulous, you can use the $R$ gate which performs a given rotation around the given axis. 
When called with `PauliI` axis, this operation applies a global phase to the given qubit. 
You can use any qubit to apply this gate, for example, `qs[0]`.

3. $f(x) = x \bmod 2$

The binary representation of $x$ is $x = (x_{0}, x_{1}, \dots, x_{N-1})$, with the least significant bit encoded in the last bit (stored in the last qubit of the input array). Then you can rewrite the function as

$$f(x) = x_{N-1}$$

Let's use this in the oracle effect expression:

$$U_f \ket{x} = (-1)^{f(x)} \ket{x} = (-1)^{x_{N-1}} \ket{x} = \ket{x_{0} } \otimes \cdots \otimes \ket{x_{N-2} } \otimes (-1)^{x_{N-1}} \ket{x_{N-1}}$$

This means that you only need to use the last qubit in the implementation: do nothing if it's $\ket{0}$ and apply a phase of $-1$ if it's $\ket{1}$. This is exactly the effect of the $Z$ gate!

You can write out the oracle unitary as follows:

$$U_f = \mathbb{1} \otimes \cdots \otimes \mathbb{1} \otimes Z$$

In the following demo you'll see how to implement three multi-bit functions as quantum oracles, and their effect on a quantum state.
After that, you'll try to implement the oracles for two more functions on your own!

Source: OracleImplementationDemo.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    import Std.Diagnostics.*;
    import Std.Math.*;

    operation PhaseOracle_Zero(x : Qubit[]) : Unit {
        // Do nothing...
    }

    operation PhaseOracle_One(x : Qubit[]) : Unit {
        // Apply a global phase of -1
        R(PauliI, 2.0 * PI(), x[0]);
    }

    operation PhaseOracle_Xmod2(x : Qubit[]) : Unit {
        let N = Length(x);
        // Array elements are indexed 0 through Length(x) - 1, inclusive.
        Z(x[N - 1]);
    }

    @EntryPoint()
    operation OracleImplementationDemo() : Unit {
        use qs = Qubit[2];
        Ry(2.0 * ArcCos(0.5), qs[0]);
        Ry(2.0 * ArcCos(0.6), qs[1]);
        Message("The state before oracle application:");
        DumpMachine();

        // Apply the oracle.
        // Experiment with using other oracles to see their behavior!
        // (Note that the -1 global phase might not show up in simulation)
        PhaseOracle_Xmod2(qs);

        Message("The state after oracle application:");
        DumpMachine();

        ResetAll(qs);
    }
}
```
