# Solving the Problem: Deutsch-Jozsa Algorithm

Now let's return to the problem of figuring out whether the given function is constant or balanced.
The following sections present the algorithm in detail step-by-step.

### Inputs

You are given the number of bits in the oracle input $N$ and the oracle itself - a "black box" operation $U_f$ that implements a classical function $f(x)$. You are guaranteed that the function implemented by the oracle is either constant or balanced.

### The starting state

The algorithm starts with $N$ qubits in the $\ket{0...0} = \ket{0}^{\otimes N}$ state.

### Step 1. Apply Hadamard transform to each qubit

Applying the $H$ gate to one qubit in the $\ket{0}$ state converts it to the $\frac{1}{\sqrt2} \big(\ket{0} + \ket{1} \big)$ state, which is an equal superposition of both basis states on one qubit. 

If you apply the $H$ gate to each of the two qubits in the $\ket{00}$ state, you get 

$$(H \otimes H) \ket{00} = \big(H \ket{0} \big) \otimes \big(H \ket{0}\big) = \left(\frac{1}{\sqrt2} \big(\ket{0} + \ket{1} \big)\right) \otimes \left(\frac{1}{\sqrt2} \big(\ket{0} + \ket{1} \big)\right) = \frac{1}{2} \big(\ket{00} + \ket{01} + \ket{10} + \ket{11} \big)$$

This is just an equal superposition of all basis states on two qubits! 
You can extend the same thinking to applying the $H$ gate to each of the $N$ qubits in the $\ket{0...0}$ state to conclude that this transforms them into a state that is an equal superposition of all basis states on $N$ qubits.

Mathematically, the transformation "apply $H$ gate to each of the $N$ qubits" can be denoted as $H^{\otimes N}$. After applying this transformation, you get the following state:

$$H^{\otimes N} \ket{0}^{\otimes N} = \big( H\ket{0} \big)^{\otimes N} = \left( \frac{1}{\sqrt2} \big(\ket{0} + \ket{1} \big) \right)^{\otimes N} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2^N}} \sum_{x=0}^{2^N-1} \ket{x}$$

### Step 2. Apply the oracle

This step is the only step in which you use the knowledge of the classical function, given as the quantum oracle. 
This step keep the amplitudes of the basis states for which $f(x) = 0$ unchanged, and multiply the amplitudes of the basis states for which $f(x) = 1$ by $-1$.

Mathematically, the results of oracle application can be written as follows:

$$U_f \left(\frac{1}{\sqrt{2^N}} \sum_{x=0}^{2^N-1} \ket{x} \right) = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2^N}} \sum_{x=0}^{2^N-1} U_f\ket{x} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2^N}} \sum_{x=0}^{2^N-1} (-1)^{f(x)} \ket{x}$$

### Step 3. Apply Hadamard transform to each qubit again

In this step, you don't need to worry about the whole expression for the state of the qubits after applying the $H$ gates to them; it's enough to calculate only the resulting amplitude of the basis state $\ket{0}^{\otimes N}$.

Consider one of the basis states $\ket{x}$ in the expression $\sum_{x=0}^{2^N-1} (-1)^{f(x)} \ket{x}$.  
It can be written as $\ket{x} = \ket{x_{0} } \otimes \cdots \otimes \ket{x_{N-1}}$, where each $\ket{x_k}$ is either $\ket{0}$ or $\ket{1}$.  
When you apply the $H$ gates to $\ket{x}$, we'll get $H^{\otimes N} \ket{x} = H\ket{x_{0} } \otimes \cdots \otimes H\ket{x_{N-1}}$, where each term of the tensor product is either $H\ket{0} = \frac{1}{\sqrt2}\big(\ket{0} + \ket{1} \big) = \ket{+}$ or $H\ket{1} = \frac{1}{\sqrt2}\big(\ket{0} - \ket{1} \big) = \ket{-}$. 
If you open the brackets in this tensor product, you get a superposition of all $N$-qubit basis states, each of them with amplitude $\frac{1}{\sqrt{2^N}}$ or $-\frac{1}{\sqrt{2^N}}$ — and, since the amplitude of the $\ket{0}$ state in both $\ket{+}$ and $\ket{-}$ is positive, you know that the amplitude of the basis state $\ket{0}^{\otimes N}$ ends up positive, that is, $\frac{1}{\sqrt{2^N}}$.

Now you can calculate the amplitude of the $\ket{0}^{\otimes N}$ state in the expression $H^{\otimes N} \left( \frac{1}{\sqrt{2^N}} \sum_{x=0}^{2^N-1} (-1)^{f(x)} \ket{x} \right)$: in each of the $2^N$ terms of the sum its amplitude is $\frac{1}{\sqrt{2^N}}$. Therefore, you get the total amplitude

$$\frac{1}{\sqrt{2^N}} \sum_{x=0}^{2^N-1} (-1)^{f(x)} \frac{1}{\sqrt{2^N}} = \frac{1}{2^N} \sum_{x=0}^{2^N-1} (-1)^{f(x)}$$

### Step 4. Perform measurements and interpret the result

So far, you didn't use the fact that the function you are given is constant or balanced. Let's see how this affects the amplitude of the $\ket{0}^{\otimes N}$ state.

* If the function is constant, $f(x) = C$ (either always $0$ or always $1$), you get  
  $$\frac{1}{2^N} \sum_{x=0}^{2^N-1} (-1)^{f(x)} = \frac{1}{2^N} \sum_{x=0}^{2^N-1} (-1)^{C} = \frac{1}{2^N} \cdot 2^N (-1)^C = (-1)^C$$
  Since the sum of squares of amplitudes of all basis states always equals $1$, the amplitudes of the rest of the basis states have to be 0 - this means that the state of the qubits after step 3 *is* $\ket{0}^{\otimes N}$.

* If the function is balanced, that is, returns $0$ for exactly half of the inputs and $1$ for the other half of the inputs, exactly half of the terms in the sum $\frac{1}{2^N} \sum_{x=0}^{2^N-1} (-1)^{f(x)}$ will be $1$ and the other half of the terms will be $-1$, and they will all cancel out, leaving the amplitude of $\ket{0}^{\otimes N}$ equal to $0$.

Now, what happens when you measure all qubits? (Remember that the probability of getting a certain state as a result of measurement equals to the square of the amplitude of this state.)

If the function is constant, the only measurement result you can get is all zeros - the probability of getting any other result is $0$. If the function is balanced, the probability of getting all zeros is $0$, so you'll get any measurement result except this.

This is exactly the last step of the algorithm: **measure all qubits, if all measurement results are 0, the function is constant, otherwise it's balanced**.

### Summary

In the end, the algorithm is very straightforward:

1. Apply the $H$ gate to each qubit.
2. Apply the oracle.
3. Apply the $H$ gate to each qubit again.
4. Measure all qubits.
5. If all qubits are measured in $\ket{0}$ state, the function is constant, otherwise it's balanced.

Note that this algorithm requires only $1$ oracle call, and always produces the correct result!
