# Bernstein-Vazirani Algorithm

To wrap up the discussion in this kata, let's take a look at a problem solved using a similar approach - the Bernstein-Vazirani algorithm.
In this problem, you are also given an oracle implementing an $N$-bit function $f(x): \{0, 1\}^N \to \{0, 1\}$.
However, this time the function is guaranteed to be a *scalar product function*, that is, there exists an $N$-bit string $s$
that allows the following representation ($\cdot$ is bitwise inner product of integers modulo $2$):

$$f(x) = x \cdot s = \sum_{k=0}^{N-1} x_k s_k \bmod 2$$

The task is to recover the hidden bit string $s$.

**Examples**

- $f(x) \equiv 0$ is an example of such a function with $s = 0, \dots, 0$.
- $f(x) = 1 \text{ if x has odd number of 1s, and } 0 \text{ otherwise }$ is another example of such a function, with $s = 1, \dots, 1$.

If you solve this problem classically, how many calls to the given function will you need? 
You'd need to use one query to recover each bit of $s$ (the query for $k$-th bit can be a bit string with $1$ in the $k$-th bit and zeros in all other positions), for a total of $N$ queries.

What about the quantum scenario?
It turns out that the algorithm that allows you to solve this problem looks just like Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm, 
except for the way you interpret the measurement results on the last step. To see this, you'll need to take another look 
at the math involved in applying Hadamard gates to multiple qubits.

### Apply Hadamard transform to each qubit: a different view

When you apply an $H$ gate to a single qubit in the basis state $\ket{x}$, you can write the result as the following sum:

$$H\ket{x} = \frac1{\sqrt2} (\ket{0} + (-1)^{x} \ket{1}) = \frac1{\sqrt2} \sum_{z \in \{0, 1\}} (-1)^{x \cdot z} \ket{z}$$

If you use this representation to spell out the result of applying an $H$ gate to each qubit of an $N$-qubit basis state 
$\ket{x} = \ket{x_0}\ket{x_1} \dots \ket{x_{N-1}}$, you get:

$$H\ket{x} = \frac1{\sqrt{2^N}} \sum_{z_k \in {0, 1}} (-1)^{x_0z_0 + \dots + x_{N-1}z_{N-1}} \ket{z_0}\ket{z_1} \dots \ket{z_{N-1}} =$$

$$= \frac1{\sqrt{2^N}} \sum_{z = 0}^{2^N-1} (-1)^{x \cdot z} \ket{z}$$

With this in mind, let's revisit the algorithm and see how you can write the exact quantum state after it.

### Bernstein-Vazirani algorithm

Bernstein-Vazirani algorithm follows the same outline as Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm:

1. Apply the $H$ gate to each qubit.
2. Apply the oracle.
3. Apply the $H$ gate to each qubit again.
4. Measure all qubits.

You know that after the second step the qubits end up in the following state:

$$\frac{1}{\sqrt{2^N}} \sum_{x=0}^{2^N-1} (-1)^{f(x)} \ket{x}$$

Now, once you apply the Hadamard gates to each qubit, the system state becomes:

$$\frac{1}{2^N} \sum_{x=0}^{2^N-1} \sum_{z=0}^{2^N-1} (-1)^{f(x) + x \cdot z} \ket{z}$$

> In Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm, you looked at the amplitude of the $\ket{0}$ state in this expression, which was 
> $\frac{1}{2^N} \sum_{x=0}^{2^N-1} (-1)^{f(x)}$.

Now, let's take a look at the amplitude of the $\ket{s}$ state - the state that encodes the hidden bit string you're looking for.
This amplitude is 

$$\frac{1}{2^N} \sum_{x=0}^{2^N-1} (-1)^{f(x) + x \cdot s}$$

Since $f(x) = x \cdot s$, for all values of $x$ $f(x) + x \cdot s = 2 x \cdot s$, and $(-1)^{f(x) + x \cdot s} = 1$.
Overall the amplitude of $\ket{s}$ is 

$$\frac{1}{2^N} \sum_{x=0}^{2^N-1} 1 = \frac{1}{2^N} 2^N = 1$$

This means that the state after applying the Hadamard gates is just $\ket{s}$, and measuring it gives you the bit string $s$!
And, same as Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm, Bernstein-Vazirani algorithm takes only one oracle call.
