# Inner Product

The **inner product** is yet another important matrix operation that is only applied to vectors. Given two vectors $V$ and $W$ of the same size, their inner product $\langle V , W \rangle$ is defined as a product of matrices $V^\dagger$ and $W$:

$$\langle V , W \rangle = V^\dagger W$$

Let's break this down so it's a bit easier to understand. A $1 \times n$ matrix (the adjoint of an $n \times 1$ vector) multiplied by an $n \times 1$ vector results in a $1 \times 1$ matrix, which is equivalent to a scalar. The result of an inner product is that scalar. 

That is, to calculate the inner product of two vectors, take the corresponding elements $V_k$ and $W_k$, multiply the complex conjugate of $V_k$ by $W_k$, and add up those products:

$$\langle V , W \rangle = \sum_{k=0}^{n-1}\overline{V_k}W_k$$

If you're familiar with the **dot product**, you'll notice that it's equivalent to inner product for real-numbered vectors.

> You might encounter other sources which define the inner product a little differently: $\langle V , W \rangle = W^\dagger V = V^T\overline{W}$, in contrast to the $V^\dagger W$ that is used here. These definitions are almost equivalent, with some differences in the scalar multiplication by a complex number.

An immediate application for the inner product is computing the **vector norm**. The norm of vector $V$ is defined as $||V|| = \sqrt{\langle V , V \rangle}$. This condenses the vector down to a single non-negative real value. If the vector represents coordinates in space, the norm happens to be the length of the vector. A vector is called **normalized** if its norm is equal to $1$.

The inner product has the following properties:

* Distributivity over addition: $\langle V + W , X \rangle = \langle V , X \rangle + \langle W , X \rangle$ and $\langle V , W + X \rangle = \langle V , W \rangle + \langle V , X \rangle$
* Partial associativity with scalar multiplication: $x \cdot \langle V , W \rangle = \langle \overline{x}V , W \rangle = \langle V , xW \rangle$
* Skew symmetry: $\langle V , W \rangle = \overline{\langle W , V \rangle}$
* Multiplying a vector by a unitary matrix **preserves the vector's inner product with itself** (and therefore the vector's norm): $\langle UV , UV \rangle = \langle V , V \rangle$

> Note that just like matrix multiplication, the inner product **isn't commutative**: $\langle V , W \rangle$ won't always equal $\langle W , V \rangle$.
