# Overview

True random number generation is a notoriously difficult problem. Many "random" generators today are actually pseudo-random, using a starting seed to spawn seemingly-random numbers that are actually a repeatable function of that seed. Most true random number generators are based on measurements of some natural phenomenon, such as atmospheric noise or atomic decay. You can read more about it <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Random_number_generation" target="_blank">here</a>.

Quantum random number generators (QRNGs) are truly random. Of course, this only applies to the case when they run on a real quantum device, relying on the randomness of the quantum state collapse during measurement to produce the random numbers. When QRNGs run on a simulator, the source of randomness is the same as for other classical programs, so the generated numbers are pseudo-random.

The quantum algorithm for random number generation is one of the simplest applications of quantum computing principles, requiring very few qubits to run.

**This kata covers the following topics:**

- Quantum random number generation and the principles behind it
- Implementation of a variety of QRNGs with equal probability of any given number
- Implementation a single-bit QRNG with weighted probabilities of generated bits

**What you should know to start working on this kata:**

- Quantum measurements
- Basic single-qubit gates

If you need a refresher on these topics, you can check out the previous katas.
