# Generate a Single Random Bit

**Input:** None.

**Goal:** Generate a $0$ or $1$ with equal probability.
<details>
  <summary><b>Need a hint?</b></summary>
  Use the allocated qubit, apply a quantum gate to it, measure it and use the result to return a $0$ or $1$.
</details>

**Stretch goal:** Can you find a different way to implement this operation?
<details>
  <summary><b>Need a hint?</b></summary>
  What are the different quantum states that produce $0$ and $1$ measurement results with the same probability? How would measuring the qubit in a different basis change the result?
</details>

## Solution Notes

The state of single qubit can be represented as a two-dimensional column vector $\begin{bmatrix} \alpha \\ \beta \end{bmatrix}$, where $\alpha$ and $\beta$ are complex numbers that satisfy $|\alpha|^2 + |\beta|^2 = 1$. When you measure the qubit, you get either 0 with probability $|\alpha|^2$ or 1 with probability $|\beta|^2$. Essentially, you can control probability of measurement outcome by setting the right amplitudes of basis states. 

When you allocate the qubit in Q#, amplitudes $\alpha$ and $\beta$ are 1 and 0, respectively. Now your goal is to set equal amplitudes for $\alpha$ and $\beta$ for absolute randomness. You can achieve that by simply applying Hadamard gate to the initial state $\ket{0}$:

$$
H\ket{0} =
\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}
\begin{bmatrix} 1 & 1 \\ 1 & -1 \end{bmatrix}
\begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix} =
\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}
\begin{bmatrix} 1 \cdot 1 + 1 \cdot 0 \\ 1 \cdot 1 + (-1) \cdot 0 \end{bmatrix} =
\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}
\begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix}
$$

Now, both 0 and 1 measurement outcomes occur with equal probability of $|\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}|^2 = \frac{1}{2}$.

> Since the outcome probability is the square of the absolute value of amplitude, you'll get the same distribution of outcomes by measuring the $\ket{-}$ state, which you can prepare by applying the Hadamard gate to the basis state $\ket{1}$. Try it out to achieve the stretch goal!

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    operation RandomBit() : Int {
        // Allocate single qubit.
        use q = Qubit();

        // Convert the qubit state to |+>.
        H(q);

        // Measure the qubit and reset it to |0>.
        let result = MResetZ(q);

        // Return integer value of result.
        if result == One {
            return 1;
        }
        return 0;
    }
}
```
