# Generate a Weighted Bit

In each of the above exercises, all generated numbers were equally likely. Now let's create an operation that will return a random bit with different probabilities of outcomes. 

> Remember that by setting the amplitudes of basis states $\alpha$ and $\beta$, you can control the probability of getting measurement outcomes $0$ and $1$ when the qubit is measured.

**Input:** 
A floating-point number $x$, $0 \le x \le 1$. 

**Goal:** Generate $0$ or $1$ with probability of $0$ equal to $x$ and probability of $1$ equal to $1 - x$.

> Q# namespace `Std.Math` includes useful functions `Sqrt`, `ArcCos`, and `ArcSin`.

## Solution Notes

An arbitrary single-qubit state can be written as:

$$
\ket{\psi} =
    \cos \frac{\theta}{2} \ket{0 } + e^{i\phi}  \sin \frac{\theta}{2} \ket{1}
$$

Here, $\theta$ is the angle between the state vector and the $Z$-axis, and $\phi$ is the longitude angle with respect to the $X$-axis on the Bloch sphere.

Your goal is to generate $0$ or $1$ with the probability of generating a $0$ equal to $x$ and the probability of generating a $1$ equal to $1 - x$. This means that the qubit state should look like this:

$$
\ket{\psi} =
    \sqrt x \ket{0 } + \sqrt{1 - x} \ket{1}
$$

Comparing the amplitudes of the state $\ket{0 }$ in the two equations, you get

$$
\sqrt x = \cos \frac{\theta}{2} \Rightarrow \theta = 2 \arccos\sqrt x
$$

Since $\theta$ is the angle between the state vector and the $Z$-axis, you need to apply the $Ry$ gate with the calculated $\theta$ to the starting state $\ket{0 }$ to get the desired qubit state.

The $Ry$ gate applies a given rotation about the $Y$-axis, that is, in the $ZX$-plane. Hence, $\phi$ (longitude angle with respect to $X$-axis) is always equal to $0^{\circ}$, which means that the relative phase $e^{i\phi}$ doesn't have any impact on the resulting qubit state.

> You can also calculate ${\theta}$ by comparing the amplitudes of the state $\ket{1 }$ in the two equations, which is $2 \arcsin\sqrt{1.0 - x}$. The results will be equivalent.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    import Std.Math.*;

    operation WeightedRandomBit(x : Double) : Int {
        let theta = 2.0 * ArcCos(Sqrt(x));  // or 2.0 * ArcSin(Sqrt(1.0 - x));

        use q = Qubit();
        Ry(theta, q);

        let result = MResetZ(q);
        return result == Zero ? 0 | 1;
    }
}
```
