# Controlled Gates

**Controlled gates** are a class of gates derived from other gates as follows: they act on a control qubit and a target qubit, just like the $CNOT$ gate.
A controlled-$U$ gate applies the $U$ gate to the target qubit if the control qubit is in state $\ket{1}$, and does nothing otherwise.

Given a gate $U = \begin{bmatrix} \alpha & \beta \\ \gamma & \delta \end{bmatrix}$, its controlled version looks like this:

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Gate</th>
        <th>Matrix</th>
        <th>Q# Documentation</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>$\text{Controlled }U$</td>
        <td>
            $$
            \begin{bmatrix}
                1 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 
                0 & 1 & 0 & 0 \\ 
                0 & 0 & \alpha & \beta \\ 
                0 & 0 & \gamma & \delta
            \end{bmatrix}
            $$
        </td>
        <td><a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/quantum/user-guide/language/expressions/functorapplication#controlled-functor" target="_blank">Controlled functor</a></td>
    </tr>
</table>

> The $CNOT$ gate is en example of a controlled gate, which is why it's also known as the controlled $NOT$ or controlled $X$ gate.

The concept of controlled gates can be generalized beyond controlling single-qubit gates.
For any multi-qubit gate, its controlled version will have an identity matrix in the top left quadrant, the gate itself in the bottom right, and $0$ everywhere else.
Here, for example, is the Controlled $SWAP$, or **Fredkin gate**:

$$
\begin{bmatrix}
    1 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 
    0 & 1 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 
    0 & 0 & 1 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 
    0 & 0 & 0 & 1 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 
    0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 1 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 
    0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 1 & 0 \\ 
    0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 1 & 0 & 0 \\ 
    0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 1
\end{bmatrix}
$$

In Q#, controlled gates are applied using the <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/quantum/user-guide/language/expressions/functorapplication#controlled-functor" target="_blank">`Controlled`</a> functor.
The controlled version of a gate accepts an array of control qubits (in this case an array of a single qubit), followed by the arguments to the original gate.
For example, these two lines are equivalent:

```qsharp
Controlled X([control], target);
CNOT(control, target);
```

If the original gate was implemented as an operation with multiple parameters, the controlled version of this gate will take those parameters as a tuple. For example, to apply Fredkin gate, you'd have to call:

```qsharp
Controlled SWAP([control], (q1, q2));
```

You can use the controlled version of a Q# operation only if that operation has a controlled version defined.
The Q# compiler will often be able to generate a controlled version of the operation automatically if you put `is Ctl` after the operation's return type.
In other cases, you'll need to define the controlled version of an operation manually.
