# Controlled Rotation

**Inputs:**

1. Two qubits in an arbitrary state $\ket{\phi}$, stored as an array of length 2.
2. An angle $\theta$: $-\pi < \theta \leq \pi$.

**Goal:** Apply a controlled $R_x$ gate, using the first qubit as control and the second qubit as target, with $\theta$ as the angle argument for the gate.

<details>
    <summary><b>Need a hint?</b></summary>
    <p>If you were to apply a regular version of $R_x$ gate, it would take two parameters - angle $\theta$ as the first parameter and the target qubit as the second parameter.</p>
</details>

## Solution Notes

In Q#, the `Rx` intrinsic gate takes the angle $\theta$ and the target qubit as inputs. To create a controlled version of this gate, you can use the `Controlled` functor.

A matrix representation of this operation would be:

$$
\begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 1 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & \cos\frac{\theta}{2} & -i\sin\frac{\theta}{2} \\ 0 & 0 & -i\sin\frac{\theta}{2} &  \cos\frac{\theta}{2} \end{bmatrix}
$$

The parameters of the new gate are changed a bit:

* The first parameter has to be the array of control qubits; the `Rx` gate will be applied to the target only if these are all in the $\ket{1}$ state. Note that this parameter has to be an array, even if there is just one control qubit!
* The second parameter is a tuple with the parameters that you would've passed to the original `Rx` gate. You can create a tuple of values by putting round brackets around them.

> The `Controlled` functor can be used before any single-qubit gate to make it a controlled gate. The first argument will be an array of qubits even if you're using a single control qubit, like in the $CNOT$ gate. The second argument is a tuple `()` with the parameters of the gate. For example, these two gates are equivalent: `CNOT(qs[0], qs[1])` and `Controlled X([qs[0]], (qs[1]));`

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    operation ControlledRotation (qs : Qubit[], theta : Double) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        let control = qs[0];
        let target = qs[1];
        Controlled Rx([control], (theta, target));
    }
}
```
