# Other Types of Controlled Gates

Typically, the term "controlled $U$ gate" refers to the type of gate you've seen previously, which applies the gate $U$ only if the control qubit(s) are in the $\ket{1}$ state.

It's possible, however, to define variants of controlled gates that use different states as control states.
For example, an **anti-controlled** $U$ gate (sometimes called **zero-controlled**) applies a gate only if the control qubit is in the $\ket{0}$ state.
It's also possible to define control conditions in other bases, for example, applying the gate if the control qubit is in the $\ket{+}$ state.

All the variants of controlled gates can be expressed in terms of the controls described in previous sections, using the following sequence of steps:

- First, apply a transformation on control qubits that will transform the state you want to use as control into the $\ket{1...1}$ state.
- Apply the regular controlled version of the gate.
- Finally, undo the transformation on control qubits from the first step using the adjoint version of it.

Why do you need this last step? Remember that controlled gates are defined in terms of their effect on the basis states:
you apply the gate on the target qubit if and only if the control qubit is in the state you want to control on, and you don't change the state of the control qubit at all.
If you don't undo the transformation you did on the first step, applying your gate to a basis state will modify not only the state of the target qubit but also the state of the control qubit, which is not what you're looking for.

For example, consider an anti-controlled $X$ gate - a gate that should apply an $X$ gate to the second qubit if the first qubit is in the $\ket{0}$ state.
Here is the effect you expect this gate to have on each of the 2-qubit basis states:

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Input state</th>
    <th>Output state</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>$\ket{00}$</td>
    <td>$\ket{01}$</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>$\ket{01}$</td>
    <td>$\ket{00}$</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>$\ket{10}$</td>
    <td>$\ket{10}$</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>$\ket{11}$</td>
    <td>$\ket{11}$</td>
  </tr>
</table>

Let's apply the anti-controlled $X$ gate to the $\ket{00}$ state step by step:

1. Transform the state of the control qubit to $\ket{1}$: you can do that by applying the $X$ gate to the first qubit:
$$\ket{00} \rightarrow \ket{10}$$
2. Apply the regular $CNOT$ gate:
$$\ket{10} \rightarrow \ket{11}$$
3. Now, if you don't undo the change you did on the first step, you'll end up with a gate that transforms $\ket{00}$ into $\ket{11}$, which is not the transformation you're trying to implement.
However, if you undo it by applying the $X$ gate to the first qubit again, you'll get the correct state:
$$\ket{11} \rightarrow \ket{01}$$

You can check that getting the right behavior of the operation on the rest of the basis states also requires that last step.

Finally, let's take a look at a very useful operation `ApplyControlledOnBitString` provided by the Q# standard library.
It applies a variant of a gate controlled on a basis state specified by a bit mask; for example, bit mask `[true, false]` means that the gate should be applied only if the two control qubits are in the $\ket{10}$ state.
This operation takes four arguments: the control bit mask as a Boolean array, the gate $U$ that needs its controlled variant defined, the array of control qubits, and the arguments to the $U$ gate (the target qubit(s) and any additional parameters it takes).

The sequence of steps that implement this variant are:

1. Apply the $X$ gate to each control qubit that corresponds to a `false` element of the bit mask (in the example, that's just the second qubit). After this, if the control qubits started in the $\ket{10}$ state, they'll end up in the $\ket{11}$ state, and if they started in any other state, they'll end up in any state but $\ket{11}$.
2. Apply the regular controlled version of the gate.
3. Apply the $X$ gate to the same qubits to return them to their original state.
