# Arbitrary Controls

**Input:**

1. `controls` - a register of $N$ qubits in an arbitrary state $\ket{\phi}$.
2. `target` - a qubit in an arbitrary state $\ket{\psi}$.
3. `controlBits` - an array of $N$ booleans, specifying what state each control qubit should be in order to apply the gate.

**Goal:** Apply the controlled $X$ gate with the `controls` as control qubits and `target` as target, with the state specified by `controlBits` as controls. If the element of the array is `true`, the corresponding qubit is a regular control (should be in state $\ket{1}$), and if it is `false`, the corresponding qubit is an anti-control (should be in state $\ket{0}$).

> For example, if `controlBits = [true, false, true]`, the controlled $X$ gate should only be applied if the control qubits are in state $\ket{101}$.

<details>
    <summary><strong>Need a hint?</strong></summary>
    <p>Consider using a library operation for this task. If you want to do it without a library operation, don't forget to reset the qubits back to the state they were originally in.</p>
</details>

## Solution Notes

You're asked to perform an $X$ gate on the `target` qubit controlled by the state of `controls` qubits; this state should correspond to the mask given by `controlBits`.

If the `controlBits` mask consists of all `true` values, you can use a familiar `Controlled X` gate. What can you do if the mask has some `false` values in it?

Turns out you can transform the state of the control qubits depending on the corresponding elements of `controlBits`: if the element is `false`, you apply an $X$ gate to the corresponding qubit in the `controls` array. After this, `Controlled X` gate will apply an $X$ gate in the exact case that you want.
Finally, you'll need to remember to undo ("uncompute") the first step, otherwise your controlled gate will affect the state of the control qubits as well as the state of the target.

As you can see in the first cell below, this can take quite some coding.

Source: SolutionA.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    operation MultiControls (controls : Qubit[], target : Qubit, controlBits : Bool[]) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        for index in 0 .. Length(controls) - 1 {
            if controlBits[index] == false {
                X(controls[index]);       
            }
        }
     
        Controlled X(controls,target);
    
        for index in 0 .. Length(controls) - 1 {
            if controlBits[index] == false {
                X(controls[index]);       
            }
        }
    }
}
```

You can shorten the code a bit using the `within ... apply` construct which takes care of uncomputing the steps done in the first code block automatically:

Source: SolutionB.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    operation MultiControls (controls : Qubit[], target : Qubit, controlBits : Bool[]) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        within {
            for index in 0 .. Length(controls) - 1 {
                if controlBits[index] == false {
                    X(controls[index]);       
                }
            }
        } apply {
            Controlled X(controls,target);
        }
    }
}
```

Finally, here is how the exact same task could be realized using the library function `ApplyControlledOnBitString`.

Source: SolutionC.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    operation MultiControls (controls : Qubit[], target : Qubit, controlBits : Bool[]) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        ApplyControlledOnBitString(controlBits, X, controls, target);
    }
}
```
