# Multi-Qubit Pauli Measurements

Joint measurement is a generalization of the measurement in the computational basis.
Pauli measurements can also be generalized to a larger number of qubits. A multi-qubit Pauli measurement corresponds to an operator $M_1 \otimes \dotsc \otimes M_n$, with each $M_i$ being from the set of gates $\{X,Y,Z,I\}$. If at least one of the operators isn't the identity matrix, then the measurement can result in two outcomes: a `Result` of `Zero` corresponding to eigenvalue $+1$ and a `Result` of `One` corresponding to the eigenvalue $-1$. The corresponding projection operators are the projections onto the corresponding eigenspaces.

For example, a Pauli/joint measurement corresponding to the $X\otimes Z$ operator can be characterized as follows:
<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Eigenvalue</th>
        <th>Measurement Result in Q#</th>
        <th>Eigenbasis</th>
        <th>Measurement Projector</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>$+1$</td>
        <td>Zero</td>
        <td>$\{ \ket{0,+}, \ket{1,-} \}$</td>
        <td>$P_{+1} = \ket{0,+}\bra{0,+} +  \ket{1,-} \bra{1,-}$</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>$-1$</td>
        <td>One</td>
        <td>$\{ \ket{0,-}, \ket{1,+} \}$</td>
        <td>$P_{-1} = \ket{0,-}\bra{0,-} +  \ket{1,+} \bra{1,+}$</td>
    </tr>
</table>

The rules for measurements are then the same as those outlined in the Partial Measurements section, with the projection operators in the table.

## 🔎 Analyze

### Parity measurement in a different basis

Consider a system which is in a state $\alpha \ket{00} + \beta \ket{01} + \beta \ket{10} + \alpha \ket{11}$.

What are the possible outcomes and their associated probabilities, if a measurement in an $XX$ Pauli measurement is done?

<details>
<summary><b>Solution</b></summary>
The first step towards identifying the outcomes and their probabilities for joint measurements is to identify the eigenvectors corresponding to eigenvalues $\pm1$ of the Pauli operator. Note that since $X\ket{\pm}= \pm\ket{\pm}$, you have

$$XX \ket{++} = \ket{++}$$
$$XX \ket{--} = \ket{--}$$
$$XX \ket{+-} = -\ket{+-}$$
$$XX \ket{-+} = -\ket{-+}$$

Thus, the $XX$ operator measures the parity in the Hadamard, or the $\ket{\pm}$ basis. That is, it distinguishes basis states with an even number of $+$'s from basis states which have an odd number of $+$'s.

The projector corresponding to a result of `Zero` is given by $P_{+1} = \ket{++}\bra{++} + \ket{--}\bra{--}$, while the projector corresponding to a result of `One` is given by $P_{-1} = \ket{+-}\bra{+-} + \ket{-+}\bra{-+}$. Then, note that $P_{+1}$ annihilates states with odd parity, while leaving states with even parity unaffected. That is, for any values of the constants
$$P_{+1} ( \gamma \ket{++} + \delta \ket{--} ) = ( \gamma \ket{++} + \delta \ket{--} )$$
$$P_{+1} ( \mu \ket{-+} + \nu \ket{+-} ) = 0$$

Similarly, $P_{-1}$ annihilates states with even parity, while leaving states with odd parity unaffected.

Now you express the given state in the Hadamard basis. Note that it's possible to go from the computational basis to the Hadamard basis using the following relations:
$$\ket{0} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \left( \ket{+} + \ket{-} \right)$$
$$\ket{1} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \left( \ket{+} - \ket{-} \right)$$

Using these, you obtain
$$ \alpha \ket{00} + \beta \ket{01} + \beta \ket{10} + \alpha \ket{11} = (\alpha + \beta) \ket{++} + (\alpha - \beta) \ket{--}$$
Thus, this state has an even parity in the Hadamard basis. It follows that an $XX$ Pauli measurement will result in the outcome `Zero` with probability 1, leaving the state unchanged after the measurement.
</details>
