# Overview

The previous kata discussed the concept of measurements done on single-qubit systems.
Building upon those ideas, this kata will introduce you to measurements done on multi-qubit systems, and how to implement such measurements in Q#.
This will include measuring a single qubit in a multi-qubit system, as well as measuring multiple qubits simultaneously.

**This kata covers the following topics:**

- Measuring a single qubit in a multi-qubit system
- Measuring multiple qubits simultaneously
- Implementing different kinds of measurements in Q#

**What you should know to start working on this kata:**

- Basic concepts of linear algebra
- Single and multi-qubit systems
- Basic single and multi-qubit gates
- Single-qubit system measurements

If you need a refresher on any of these topics, you can check out the previous katas.

## Types of Measurements

There are several types of measurements you can perform on an $n$-qubit system ($n>1$):

- Measuring all the qubits simultaneously in an orthogonal basis ($2^n$ possible outcomes). As you'll see below, this is a direct generalization of orthogonal basis measurements done in single-qubit systems introduced in the previous kata.
- Partial measurement: measuring $m$ qubits out of $n$, for $m<n$ ($2^m$ possible outcomes). Partial measurements involve a partial collapse of the system's wave function, since only some of the qubits are measured.
- Joint measurement: measuring a joint property of all $n$ qubits ($2$ possible outcomes).

The following sections discuss these concepts in the same order as in the list above.
