# Full Measurements: Measurements in Multi-Qubit Bases

Consider a system consisting of $n\geq1$ qubits. The wave function of such a system belongs to a vector space of dimension $2^n$. Thus, the vector space is spanned by an orthogonal basis, such as the computational basis which consists of the vectors $\ket{0\dotsc0}, \dotsc, \ket{1\dotsc 1}$. For generality, consider an arbitrary orthonormal basis, which is denoted by $\{ \ket{b_0}, \ket{b_1}, \dotsc, \ket{b_{2^n-1}} \}$.

Then, the state $\ket{\psi}$ of the multi-qubit system can be expressed as a linear combination of the $2^n$ basis vectors $\ket{b_i}$. That is, there exist complex numbers $c_0,c_1,\dotsc, c_{2^n-1}$ such that

$$
\ket{\psi} = \sum_{i=0}^{2^n-1} c_i\ket{b_i} \equiv \begin{pmatrix} c_0 \\ c_1 \\ \vdots \\ c_{2^n-1} \end{pmatrix}
$$

In line with the usual convention, let's choose the wave function to be normalized, so that $|c_0|^2 + \dotsc + |c_{2^n-1}|^2 =1$. Then, a quantum measurement in the basis $\{ \ket{b_0}, \ket{b_1}, \dotsc, \ket{b_{2^n-1}} \}$ satisfies the following rules:

- The measurement outcome $b_i$ occurs with probability $|c_i|^2$.
- Whenever the measurement outcome is $b_i$, the wave function collapses to the state $\ket{b_i}$. That is, the post-measurement state of the system is equal to $\ket{b_i}$.

This can be summarized in the following table:

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Measurement outcome</th>
        <th>Probability of outcome</th>
        <th>State after measurement</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>$b_i$</td>
        <td>$|c_i|^2$</td>
        <td>$\ket{b_i}$</td>
    </tr>
</table>

> Similar to measurements in single-qubit systems, the assumption of normalization of the original wave function is required in order to ensure that the sum of all the outcome probabilities is 1.

## 🔎 Analyze

### Multi-Qubit Measurement Outcome Probabilities I

You are given a two-qubit system in the following state:
$$\ket \psi =  \frac{2}{3}\ket {00} + \frac{1}{3} \ket {01} + \frac{2}{3}\ket {11}$$

If all the qubits are measured simultaneously in the computational basis, what are the outcome probabilities?

<details>
<summary><b>Solution</b></summary>

The wave function $\ket{\psi}$ is normalized, since $\left(\frac{2}{3}\right)^2 + \left(\frac{1}{3}\right)^2 + \left(\frac{2}{3}\right)^2 = 1$. Hence, the probabilities of measuring each of the computational basis states is simply the square of the absolute value of the corresponding coefficients. That is, the probabilities of measuring $00$, $01$ and $11$ are $\frac{4}{9}$, $\frac{1}{9}$ and $\frac{4}{9}$, respectively, and the probability of measuring the basis state $10$ that is not part of the superposition is $0$:

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Measurement outcome</th>
        <th>Probability of outcome</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>$00$</td>
        <td>$\left( \frac{2}{3}\right)^2 = \frac{4}{9}$</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>$01$</td>
        <td>$\left( \frac{1}{3}\right)^2 = \frac{1}{9}$</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>$10$</td>
        <td>$\left( 0\right)^2 = 0$</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>$11$</td>
        <td>$\left( \frac{2}{3}\right)^2 = \frac{4}{9}$</td>
    </tr>
</table>
</details>

### Multi-Qubit Measurement Outcome Probabilities II

You are given a two-qubit system in the same state as in the previous exercise:
$$\ket \psi = \frac{2}{3}\ket {00} + \frac{1}{3} \ket {01} + \frac{2}{3}\ket {11}$$

If all the qubits are measured simultaneously in the Pauli X basis, that is, in the $\{ \ket{++}, \ket{+-}, \ket{-+}, \ket{--}\}$ basis, what are the outcome probabilities?

<details>
<summary><b>Solution</b></summary>

Using the expressions $\ket{0} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \big( \ket{+} + \ket{-} \big)$ and $\ket{1} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \big( \ket{+} - \ket{-} \big)$, you first express $\ket{\psi}$ in the Pauli X basis. This gives you
$$\ket \psi =  \frac{2}{3}\ket {00} + \frac{1}{3} \ket {01} + \frac{2}{3}\ket {11} =$$

$$= \frac{2}{3} \big[ \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\big(\ket{+} + \ket{-}\big) \otimes \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \big(\ket{+} + \ket{-}\big) \big] + \frac{1}{3} \big[ \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\big(\ket{+} + \ket{-}\big) \otimes \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \big(\ket{+} - \ket{-}\big) \big] + \frac{2}{3} \big[ \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\big(\ket{+} - \ket{-}\big) \otimes \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \big(\ket{+} - \ket{-}\big) \big] =$$

$$= \frac{1}{3} \big[ \big(\ket{+} + \ket{-}\big) \otimes \big(\ket{+} + \ket{-}\big) \big] + \frac{1}{6} \big[ \big(\ket{+} + \ket{-}\big) \otimes \big(\ket{+} - \ket{-}\big) \big] + \frac{1}{3} \big[ \big(\ket{+} - \ket{-}\big) \otimes \big(\ket{+} - \ket{-}\big) \big] =$$

$$= \frac{1}{3} \big[ \ket{++} + \ket{+-} + \ket{-+} + \ket{--} \big] + \frac{1}{6} \big[ \ket{++} - \ket{+-} + \ket{-+} - \ket{--} \big] + \frac{1}{3} \big[ \ket{++} - \ket{+-} - \ket{-+} + \ket{--} \big] =$$

$$= (\frac{1}{3} + \frac{1}{6} + \frac{1}{3})\ket{++} + (\frac{1}{3} - \frac{1}{6} - \frac{1}{3})\ket{+-} + (\frac{1}{3} + \frac{1}{6} - \frac{1}{3})\ket{-+} + (\frac{1}{3} - \frac{1}{6} + \frac{1}{3})\ket{--} =$$

$$= \frac{5}{6}\ket{++} - \frac{1}{6}\ket{+-} + \frac{1}{6}\ket{-+} + \frac{1}{2}\ket{--}$$

After this, the probabilities of measuring each of the four basis vectors is given by the square of the absolute value of its amplitude in the superposition:
<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Measurement outcome</th>
        <th>Probability of outcome</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>$++$</td>
        <td>$\left( \frac{5}{6}\right)^2 = \frac{25}{36}$</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>$+-$</td>
        <td>$\left( -\frac{1}{6}\right)^2 = \frac{1}{36}$</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>$-+$</td>
        <td>$\left( \frac{1}{6}\right)^2 = \frac{1}{36}$</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>$--$</td>
        <td>$\left( \frac{1}{2}\right)^2 = \frac{1}{4}$</td>
    </tr>
</table>

</details>

Now, let's see how you can use Q# to solve these two problems.

1. You start by preparing the state $\ket \psi$.
   To do this, you can represent $\ket \psi$ as follows:
   $$\frac 2 3 \ket{00} + \big( \frac 1 {\sqrt 5} \ket{0} + \frac 2 {\sqrt 5} \ket{1} \big) \frac {\sqrt 5} 3 \ket{1}$$
   This representation tells you how you should rotate individual qubits.
2. To figure out the measurement outcome probabilities in the computational basis, you can just use the `DumpMachine` function that lists probabilities associated with each basis state present in the superposition.
3. To figure out the measurement outcome probabilities in the Pauli X basis, you can apply a transformation that maps the two-qubit Pauli X basis into the two-qubit computational basis. This transformation just applies a Hadamard gate to each of the qubits.
4. View probabilities of each basis state with the `DumpMachine` function. Thanks to the previous step, the following state equivalence holds:

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Before basis transformation</th>
        <th>After basis transformation</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>$\ket {++}$</td>
        <td>$\ket {00}$</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>$\ket {+-}$</td>
        <td>$\ket {01}$</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>$\ket {-+}$</td>
        <td>$\ket {10}$</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>$\ket {--}$</td>
        <td>$\ket {11}$</td>
    </tr>
</table>

The amplitudes of the computational basis states after the transformation are the same as the amplitudes of the basis states of the Pauli X basis before the transformation!

Source: MultiQubitProbabilities.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    import Std.Diagnostics.*;
    import Std.Math.*;

    @EntryPoint()
    operation CalculateProbabilities() : Unit {
        use qs = Qubit[2];

        Ry(2. * ArcCos(2. / 3.), qs[1]);
        Controlled Ry([qs[1]], (2. * ArcCos(1. / Sqrt(5.)), qs[0]));

        Message("The initial state of the system");
        Message("(includes measurement outcome probabilities in computational basis):");
        DumpMachine();

        // Change the basis
        H(qs[0]);
        H(qs[1]);

        Message("Final state of the two-qubit system:");
        Message("(includes measurement outcome probabilities in Pauli X basis):");
        DumpMachine();

        // Return the qubit array into state |00❭.
        ResetAll(qs);
    }
}
```

## Measuring Each Qubit in a System Sequentially

As described in the previous sections, in theory it's possible to measure all the qubits in an $n$-qubit system simultaneously in an orthogonal basis. The post-measurement state of the qubits is then exactly one of the $2^n$ possible basis states.

In practice, this is implemented by measuring all the qubits one after another. For example, if one wants to measure a two-qubit system in the computational basis, one can implement this by first measuring the first qubit in the computational basis to obtain $0$ or $1$, and then measuring the second qubit in the computational basis. This can result in one of the four possible outcomes: $00, 01, 10, 11$.

This can be generalized to measurements in other bases, such as the 2-qubit Pauli X basis $\ket{++}, \ket{+-}, \ket{-+}, \ket{--}$, and the bases for larger numbers of qubits.

> Note that measurement of all qubits sequentially can only be done in orthogonal bases $\{ \ket{b_i}\}$, such that each $\ket{b_i}$ is a **tensor product state**. That is, each $\ket{b_i}$ must be of the form $\ket{v_0} \otimes \ket{v_1} \dotsc \otimes \ket{v_{n-1}}$, with each $\ket{v_j}$ being a single-qubit basis state.
For example, for the two-qubit Pauli X basis $\ket{++}, \ket{+-}, \ket{-+}, \ket{--}$ each basis state is a tensor product of states $\ket{+}$ and $\ket{-}$, which form a single-qubit basis state.
>
> Measuring in orthogonal bases which contain states which aren't tensor product states, such as the Bell basis, are trickier to implement, and require appropriate unitary rotations in addition to measuring all qubits one after another.
> Such measurements aren't discussed in this kata.
>
> If measurements are restricted to tensor product states, the distinction between measuring all the qubits simultaneously versus one after another is not important for an ideal quantum computer: in terms of the outcomes and measurement probabilities, both approaches are identical. Furthermore, as long as all the qubits are measured, the sequence in which they are measured is also inconsequential. These factors can be important in the case of real quantum computers with imperfect qubits, but the discussion in this kata is limited to ideal systems.
