# Partial Measurements

For a system with $n>1$ qubits, it's possible to measure $m<n$ qubits one after another. The number of measurement outcomes is then $2^m$ instead of $2^n$. The probabilities of each of the outcomes and the post-measurement states of the qubits can be found using the projection formalism for measurements.

First, recall the concept of projection operators introduced in the Measurements in Single-Qubit Systems kata. Measurements are modeled by orthogonal projection operators - matrices that satisfy
$$P^2 = P^\dagger = P$$
Consider an $n$-qubit system in a state $\ket{\psi}$, for which the first $m<n$ qubits are measured in an orthogonal basis $\{ \ket{b_0} , \ket{b_1}, \dotsc, \ket{b_{2^m-1}}\}$ corresponding to the $m$ qubits being measured. Then, you define $2^m$ projectors corresponding to each of the $\ket{b_i}$ states as

$$P_i = \ket{b_i} \bra{ b_i} \otimes \mathbb{1}_{n-m} $$

where $\mathbb{1}_{n-m}$ is the identity operator over the remaining $(n-m)$ qubits.

> The symbol $\otimes$ represents the tensor product or the Kronecker product of two matrices. It's different from the usual matrix multiplication.
> In the current context, $\ket{b_i} \bra{ b_i} \otimes \mathbb{1}_{n-m}$ simply means that
>
> - The operator $\ket{b_i} \bra{ b_i}$ acts only on the $m$ qubits being measured.
> - The effect of $P_i$ on the remaining qubits is $\mathbb{1}_{n-m} $, that is, the identity operator.

Analogous to the case for measurements for single-qubit systems, the rules for partial measurement probabilities and outcomes can be summarized as follows:

- When a measurement is done, one of these projectors is chosen randomly. The probability of choosing projector $P_i$ is $\big|P_i\ket{\psi}\big|^2$.
- If the projector $P_i$ is chosen, the measurement outcome is $b_i$, and the state of the system after the measurement is given by

$$
\frac{P_i \ket{\psi}}{\big|P_i \ket{\psi}\big|}.
$$

For example, consider a two-qubit system in the state $\ket \psi = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\ket{01} - \frac{1}{\sqrt 2}\ket{10}$. Consider a measurement of the first qubit in the computational basis, that is, in the $\{\ket 0 , \ket 1 \}$ basis. Then, you have two projectors that represent this measurement:
$$P_0 = \ket 0\bra 0 \otimes \mathbb{1}$$
$$P_1 = \ket 1 \bra 1 \otimes \mathbb{1}$$

The action of $P_0$ on $\ket \psi$ is

$$P_0 \ket \psi = \left(\ket 0\bra 0 \otimes \mathbb{1}\right) \frac{1}{\sqrt 2}\big(\ket{01} - \ket{10}\big) =$$

$$= \frac{1}{\sqrt 2} \big( \ket 0 \braket{0|0} \otimes \mathbb{1} \ket{1} - \ket 0 \braket{0|1} \otimes \mathbb{1} \ket 0 \big) = \frac{1}{\sqrt 2} \ket{01}$$

Similarly, you obtain
$$P_1 \ket\psi = -\frac{1}{\sqrt 2} \ket{10}$$

Clearly, you have $\big|P_0 \ket \psi\big| = \big|P_1 \ket \psi\big| = \frac{1}{2}$ in this case. Thus, the probabilities of measuring $0$ and $1$ are both $0.5$, with the post-measurement states of system being $\ket{01}$ and $\ket{10}$, respectively.

> Similar to the case of single-qubit system measurements, the applicability of the formalism above requires the state of the multi-qubit system, $\ket \psi$, to be normalized. This is required to ensure that all the probabilities of individual outcomes add up to 1.

## 🔎 Analyze

### Partial measurement probabilities for the Hardy state

Consider a 2-qubit system in the state $\ket \psi = \frac{1}{\sqrt{12}} \big(3\ket{00} + \ket{01} + \ket{10} + \ket{11}\big)$.

If only the first qubit is measured in the computational basis, what are the probabilities of the outcomes, and the post-measurement states of the system?

<details>
<summary><b>Solution</b></summary>
A measurement outcome of $0$ on the first qubit corresponds to the projection operator $P_0 = \ket{0}\bra{ 0} \otimes \mathbb{1}$. Applying it to the state $\ket \psi$ gives you
$$\big|P_0 \ket{\psi}\big|^2 = \big|\frac{1}{\sqrt{12}} \left(3\ket {00} + \ket{01}\right) \big|^2 = \frac{5}{6}$$
and
$$\frac{P_0 \ket{\psi}}{\big|P_0 \ket{\psi}\big|} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{10}} \left( 3\ket{00} + \ket{01}\right)$$

Similarly, $P_1 = \ket{1} \bra{ 1 } \otimes \mathbb{1}$ is the projector corresponding to a measurement outcome of $1$ on the first qubit. Applying $P_1$ on $\ket{\psi}$ gives us $\big|P_1 \ket{\psi}\big|^2 = \frac{1}{6}$ and

$$\frac{P_1 \ket{\psi}}{\big|P_1 \ket{\psi}\big|} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \left(\ket{10} + \ket{11}\right)$$

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Measurement outcome</th>
        <th>Probability of outcome</th>
        <th>Post-measurement state</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>$0$</td>
        <td>$\frac{5}{6}$</td>
        <td>$\frac{1}{\sqrt{10}} \left( 3\ket{00} + \ket{01}\right)$</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>$1$</td>
        <td>$\frac{1}{6}$</td>
        <td>$\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \left(\ket{10} + \ket{11}\right)$</td>
    </tr>
</table>
</details>
