# Discussion: Probability of Victory for Quantum Strategy

The above quantum strategy adopted by Alice and Bob offers a win rate of $\frac{2 + \sqrt{2}}{4}$, or about $85.36\%$. Let's see why this is the case.

First, consider the outcome if Alice and Bob simply measure their qubits in the Z basis without manipulating them at all. Because of the entanglement inherent to the Bell state they hold, their measurements will always agree (i.e., both true or both false).
This will suffice for victory in the three scenarios (0,0), (0,1) and (1,0) and fail for (1,1), so their win probability is $75\%$, the same as that for the straightforward classical strategies of invariably returning both true or both false.

Now let's analyze the optimal quantum strategy.

> As a reminder, probability "wavefunction" for a two-qubit state is given by the following length-4 vector of amplitudes:
> $$\begin{bmatrix}\psi_{00}\\\psi_{01}\\\psi_{10}\\\psi_{11}\end{bmatrix}$$
> $|\psi_{ij}|^2$ gives the probability of observing the corresponding basis state $\ket{ij}$ upon measuring the qubit pair.

The initial state $\ket{00}$ has $\psi_{00} = 1$ and $\psi_{01} = \psi_{10} = \psi_{11} = 0$.
The Bell state we prepare as the first step of the game has an amplitude vector as follows (we'll use decimal approximations for matrix elements):

$$\begin{bmatrix}1/\sqrt{2}\\0\\0\\1/\sqrt{2}\end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix}0.7071\\0\\0\\0.7071\end{bmatrix}$$

Let's analyze the probabilities of outcomes in case of different bits received by players.

## Case 1: Alice holds bit 0

In this case Alice simply measures in the Z basis as above.

- When Bob's bit is 0, he rotates his qubit clockwise by $\pi/8$, which corresponds to the operator

$$\begin{bmatrix}
    0.9239 & 0.3827 & 0 & 0\\
    -0.3827 & 0.9239 & 0 & 0\\
    0 & 0 & 0.9239 & 0.3827\\
    0 & 0 & -0.3827 & 0.9239
\end{bmatrix}$$
This performs the $R_y$ rotation by $\pi/8$ radians clockwise on Bob's qubit while leaving Alice's qubit unchanged.

- If Bob's bit were 1, he would rotate his qubit counterclockwise by $\pi/8$, applying a very similar operator

$$\begin{bmatrix}
    0.9239 & -0.3827 & 0 & 0\\
    0.3827 & 0.9239 & 0 & 0\\
    0 & 0 & 0.9239 & -0.3827\\
    0 & 0 & 0.3827 & 0.9239
\end{bmatrix}$$

Therefore, when Alice has bit 0, the application of the rotation operator to the Bell state gives
$$\begin{bmatrix}
    0.6533 \\
    -0.2706 \\
    0.2706 \\
    0.6533
\end{bmatrix} \text{ or }
\begin{bmatrix}
    0.6533\\
    0.2706\\
    -0.2706\\
    0.6533
\end{bmatrix}$$
depending on whether Bob holds 0 (left-hand case) or 1 (right-hand case).

The result of AND on their input bits will always be 0; thus they win when their outputs agree.  These two cases correspond to the top and bottom elements of the vectors above, with a combined probability of $(0.6533)^2 + (0.6533)^2 = 0.4268 + 0.4268 = 0.8536$, so they have an $85.36\%$ win chance.

## Case 2: Alice holds bit 1

When Alice holds bit 1, she measures in basis X (or, equivalently, Hadamard-transforms her qubit, leaving Bob's qubit unchanged,
before making her Z-basis measurement).  This corresponds to applying the operator
$$\begin{bmatrix}
    0.7071 & 0 & 0.7071 & 0\\
    0 & 0.7071 & 0 & 0.7071\\
    0.7071 & 0 & -0.7071 & 0\\
    0 & 0.7071 & 0 & -0.7071
\end{bmatrix}$$
to the Bell state, resulting in a vector of:
$$\begin{bmatrix}
    0.5\\
    0.5\\
    0.5\\
    -0.5
\end{bmatrix}$$

Now, one of the two rotation operators is applied depending on what bit Bob holds, transforming this vector into:
$$\begin{bmatrix}
    0.6533 \\
    0.2706 \\
    0.2706 \\
    -0.6533
\end{bmatrix} \text{ or }
\begin{bmatrix}
    0.2706\\
    0.6533\\
    0.6533\\
    -0.2706
    \end{bmatrix}$$

When Bob holds 0, they still want to return the same parity, which they again do with $85.36\%$ probability (left-hand vector above).
But when Bob holds 1, the AND condition is now true and the players want to answer in opposite parity. This corresponds to the second and third elements of the right-hand vector above.
Thanks to the "magic" of the combination of the counterclockwise rotation and Hadamard transform, they now do this with probability $(0.6533)^2 + (0.6533)^2 = 0.8536$ and thus $85.36\%$ becomes their win odds once more.

## Side notes

- If Bob never rotated his qubit, their entangled state would remain the Bell state if Alice held bit 0 and the state corresponding to $\frac12 \big(\ket{00} + \ket{01} + \ket{10} - \ket{11}\big)$ if Alice held bit 1.
While she and Bob would have a $100\%$ success probability against Alice's 0 bit, they would have only a $50\%$ chance of success if she held bit 1, and thus their win chance would revert to the $75\%$ of the classical strategy again.
- It can be proven that Alice and Bob cannot surpass an overall win probability of $85.36\%$ in the CHSH game. This entails a higher-level discussion of quantum observable theory, for instance see [Tsirelson's bound](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tsirelson's_bound).
