# Entanglement Swapping

Alice and Bob, independently from each other, each hold an entangled qubit pair in the state $\ket{\Phi^{+}} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}(\ket{00} + \ket{11})$. They each hand off one part of their pair to Charlie.

Charlie can now teleport the state of Alice's qubit he holds onto Bob's remaining qubit, thus teleporting the entanglement. Just like in the "standard" teleportation, Bob still needs to apply the reconstruction steps - based on Charlie's measurement results - to the other qubit in his possession.

After this procedure the state $\ket{\Phi^{+}} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}(\ket{00} + \ket{11})$ now spans across Alice's and Bob's other qubits - the ones they didn't send to Charlie. These qubits are now maximally entangled, even though they never interacted in the first place!

**Output:** 
A tuple of two operations:

1. The first operation is Charlie's part of the protocol. It will take two qubits as input (the ones Alice and Bob sent to Charlie), and produce a message, encoded as an integer, that Charlie will send to Bob.

2. The second operation is Bob's part of the protocol. It will take the qubit that remained in Bob's possession and Charlie's encoded integer as input and use the message to adjust the state of Bob's qubit, so that Alice's and Bob's qubits end up in the shared state $\ket{\Phi^{+}}$.

> You will need to implement two separate helper operations, one for each part of the protocol, and return them, rather than implementing the solution in the body of the top-level operation.

## Solution Notes

The exercise demonstrate the capability of sharing a bell pair between Alice and Bob without any direct communication. This requires a third party Charlie who both Alice and Bob trust.

The implementation can be divided into following operations:

- Individually, Alice and Bob prepare a Bell state each, two qubits in the $\ket{\Phi^{+}} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}(\ket{00} + \ket{11})$ state.
- Charlie now receives one qubit from Alice `qAlice1` and other from Bob `qBob1`.
- Now, Charlie treats Alice's qubit `qAlice1` as the message qubit and teleports its state to Bob. Using the `SendMessage` operation implemented in the earlier exercise, Charlie gets two `Bool` values and encodes them as one `Int` - the classical message. Based on Charlie's measurement results, the remaining two qubits, `qAlice2` and `qBob2` can be in one of the four Bell states.
- Finally, using the `ReconstructMessage` operation implemented in the earlier exercise, Bob can perform correction on the `qBob2` qubit to convert the state of the qubit pair of `qAlice2` and `qBob2` to $\ket{\Phi^{+}}$.

In this exercise you only need to implement the last two steps.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    import Std.Convert.*;

    operation EntanglementSwapping() : ((Qubit, Qubit) => Int, (Qubit, Int) => Unit) {
        return (SendMessageCharlie, ReconstructMessageBob);
    }

    operation SendMessageCharlie(qAlice1 : Qubit, qBob1 : Qubit) : Int {
        let (c1, c2) = SendMessage(qAlice1, qBob1);
        return BoolArrayAsInt([c1, c2]);
    }

    operation ReconstructMessageBob(qBob2 : Qubit, resultCharlie : Int) : Unit {
        let classicalBits = IntAsBoolArray(resultCharlie, 2);
        ReconstructMessage(qBob2, (classicalBits[0], classicalBits[1]));
    }

    operation SendMessage(qAlice : Qubit, qMessage : Qubit) : (Bool, Bool) {
        CNOT(qMessage, qAlice);
        H(qMessage);
        return (M(qMessage) == One, M(qAlice) == One);
    }

    operation ReconstructMessage(qBob : Qubit, (b1 : Bool, b2 : Bool)) : Unit {
        if b1 {
            Z(qBob);
        }
        if b2 {
            X(qBob);
        }
    }
}
```
