# Reconstruct Message (Charlie's Task)

Alice has a message qubit in the state $\ket{\psi}$ to be teleported. She entangled it with her own qubit from $\ket{\Psi^{3}}$ in the same manner as in the `SendMessage` exercise and extracted two classical bits in order to send them to Charlie. Bob also measured his own qubit from $\ket{\Psi^{3}}$ and sent Charlie the result. Transform Charlie's qubit into the required state using the two classical bits received from Alice, and the one classical bit received from Bob.

**Inputs:** 
1. Charlie's part of the entangled trio of qubits `qCharlie`.
2. The tuple of classical bits received from Alice, in the format used in `SendMessage` exercise.
3. A classical bit resulting from the measurement of Bob's qubit.

**Goal:** 
Transform Charlie's qubit `qCharlie` into the state in which the message qubit had been originally.

## Solution Notes

Same as in the traditional teleportation protocol, Charlie's qubit now contains the information about the amplitudes $\alpha$ and $\beta$ of the teleported state, but it needs correction based on the classical messages received from Alice and Bob to match the teleported state precisely. Since there are three Boolean values, there is a total of eight possibilities.
- For 000, no change is required.
- For 001, only X correction is required.
- For 010, only X correction is required.
- For 011, no change is required or resultant operation should be Identity.
- For 100, only Z correction is requried.
- For 101, both Z and X correction is requried.
- For 110, both Z and X correction is requried.
- For 111, only Z correction is requried.

To sum up, we need to apply a $Z$ gate if the measurement result of `qMessage` is 1, and an $X$ gate if the measurement results of `qAlice` and `qBob` are different.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    operation ReconstructMessageWhenThreeEntangledQubits(qCharlie : Qubit, (b1 : Bool, b2 : Bool), b3 : Bool) : Unit {
        if b1 {
            Z(qCharlie);
        }
        if b2 != b3 {
            X(qCharlie);
        }
    }
}
```
