# The Search Problem

The problem solved by Grover's search algorithm is called the *search problem* and can be formulated as follows.
You are given a classical function that takes an $n$-bit input and returns a one-bit output $f(x): \{0, 1\}^n \to \{0, 1\}$. 
The task is to find an input $x_0$ for which $f(x_0) = 1$.

Importantly, you don't have any information about the internal structure of the function $f$! It is given to you as a "black box" that allows you to evaluate the value of the function for any input you want, but not to learn anything about how it works.

> This problem is sometimes described as *function inversion*, since it tries to evaluate the inverse of the function $f$.

### Classical solution

If you solve the search problem classically, how many calls to the given function will you need? 

Since you don't know anything about the internal structure of the function, you can't do better than the brute force approach. 
You need to try evaluating the function on different inputs until you either hit the input which produces the desired output or run out of inputs to try and conclude that the desired input doesn't exist. 
This requires $O(2^n)$ function evaluations, since in the worst case scenario you'll need to try all inputs.

### Example problems

Any problem that allows you to check whether a given value of $x$ is a solution to it can be formulated as a search problem,
if you define $f(x)$ as "$1$ if $x$ is a solution to the problem, and $0$ otherwise".

Some of the problems can be formulated as a search problem more naturally than the others.
For example:

- The Boolean satisfiability problem aims to find an assignment of variables in the given Boolean formula 
for which the formula evaluates to true (or to decide that such assignment doesn't exist). 
This is exactly the definition of the search problem, with the input $x$ defined as the set of variables used in the formula and $f(x)$ - as the formula itself.
- Vertex coloring problem aims to find an assignment of colors to the vertices of a given graph that would satisfy the given constraints. In this case, $x$ describes the colors assigned to the vertices, and $f(x)$ is $1$ if the constraints are satisfied or $0$ otherwise.

You will learn more about applying Grover's search to solving specific problems in later katas.
This kata focuses on Grover's search algorithm itself rather than on applying it to a specific problem, so 
it uses a very simple function definition as an example.

Let's define a fixed bit string $p$ of length $P$. The function $f(x)$ is $1$ if the bit string $x$ starts with $p$, and $0$ otherwise.

This function has a very simple implementation and will allow you to experiment with instances of the search problem with different parameters easily.
For example, if the length of the bit string $p$ equals the length of the input, the function $f(x) = 1$ if $x = p$, and $0$ otherwise. In this case, the equation $f(x) = 1$ has exactly one solution, the bit string $p$ itself.
