# Practicality of Grover's Search Algorithm

You saw that Grover's search algorithm offers a theoretical advantage over the classical brute force approach.
Does this mean that it is an algorithm that will offer us a practical advantage for search problems?

Unfortunately, there are several reasons why the answer is "no".

First, Grover's algorithm uses no information about problem structure, and demonstrates the advantage over the classical algorithm under the assumption that the classical algorithm doesn't use this information either. 
However, the best classical algorithms exploit problem structure, allowing solutions that are much better than brute force search. 
Compared to these algorithms, Grover's algorithm often doesn't offer even a theoretical advantage.
Additionally, classical algorithms can use parallel processing and benefit from getting multiple computation results at once.

Implementing the quantum oracle which encodes a problem instance on a quantum computer can be hard - both in terms of coming up with the code that does that and in terms of the execution time of a single oracle call. The advantage offered by Grover's algorithm is described in terms of the number of queries to the oracle and classical function evaluations. But, if a single oracle call takes many orders of magnitude longer to run than a single classical function evaluation, this overhead can easily negate the advantage in the number of calls. This limitation comes into play even for problems which don't have efficient classical algorithms, such as hash inversion.

This means that Grover's search is unlikely to offer us a practical advantage over the best classical algorithms for any problems. 
However, it remains one of the several fundamental quantum computing algorithms, and a great educational algorithm.
Besides, a technique that generalizes the idea behind Grover's algorithm called *amplitude amplification* can be used 
as a building block for other quantum algorithms.
