# Bob's Task: Decode Message

**Inputs:**

1. `qAlice` : Qubit received from Alice.
2. `qBob` : Bob's part of the entangled pair.

**Goal** :  Decode the message using the qubit received from Alice. For this, retrieve two bits of classic data from the qubits and return a tuple of the form `(Bool, Bool)` to represent `message`. The state of the qubits in the end of the operation does not matter.

Note that your solution is tested as part of an end-to-end implementation of the protocol; the goal is to get the message transmitted correctly.

## Solution Notes

Recall that Alice encoded qubits as follows:

- `(0, 0)`: $\ket{\Phi^{+}} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} (\ket{00} + \ket{11})$
- `(0, 1)`: $\ket{\Psi^{+}} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} (\ket{01} + \ket{10})$
- `(1, 0)`: $\ket{\Phi^{-}} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} (\ket{00} - \ket{11})$
- `(1, 1)`: $\ket{\Psi^{-}} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} (\ket{01} - \ket{10})$

To read out the encoded message, Bob needs to figure out which of the four Bell states he has. We can map the Bell states to basis states by applying a $CNOT$ gate with the first qubit as control and the second qubit as target, followed by an $H$ gate on the first qubit. (Notice that this is exactly what [`Adjoint`](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/quantum/user-guide/language/expressions/functorapplication#adjoint-functor) of the state preparation operation in the first task does.)
  
What is the outcome of this transformation, assuming each of the possible quantum states after the encoding step?

- $\ket{\Phi^{+}} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} (\ket{00} + \ket{11}) \rightarrow \ket{00}$
- $\ket{\Psi^{+}} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} (\ket{01} + \ket{10}) \rightarrow \ket{01}$
- $\ket{\Phi^{-}} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} (\ket{00} - \ket{11}) \rightarrow \ket{10}$
- $\ket{\Psi^{-}} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} (\ket{01} - \ket{10}) \rightarrow \ket{11}$

Hence, we can retrieve the encoded bits just by measuring the bits.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    operation DecodeMessageFromQubits(qAlice : Qubit, qBob : Qubit) : (Bool, Bool) {
        CNOT(qAlice, qBob);
        H(qAlice);
        return (MResetZ(qAlice) == One, MResetZ(qBob) == One);
    }
}
```
