# Implement the OR Oracle of All Bits Except the K-th

**Inputs:**

  1. $N \geq 2$ qubits in an arbitrary state $\ket{x}$ (input/query register).
  2. An integer $k$ such that $0 \leq k < N$.

**Goal:**

Flip the sign of the basis state $\ket{x}$ if any of the bits of $x$ (not considering the $k$-th bit) are $1$ in the input register. In other words, the input register with the $k$-th qubit excluded shouldn't be in the all zero state to flip the sign of the input register. The state of the $k$-th qubit does not affect the result.

*Feel free to explore implementing this operation with or without auxiliary qubits.*

**Examples:**

* If the query register is in the state $\ket{010}$ and $k=0$, flip the sign of the register.
* If the query register is in the state $\ket{010}$ and $k=1$, do nothing.

<details>
  <summary><b>Before implementing this oracle, answer the question: are you implementing a marking or a phase oracle?</b></summary>
    This is a phase oracle, because you're changing the phase of the input state $\ket{x}$ based on the value of the function $f(x)$.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><b>Need a hint?</b></summary>
  You can use the previously implemented oracles if needed by copying the code.
  <br/>
  You can use <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/quantum/user-guide/language/expressions/itemaccessexpressions#array-item-access-and-array-slicing" target="_blank">array slicing</a> to get parts of the array before and after the $k$-th element.
</details>

## Solution Notes

The easiest way to solve this task is to build upon your implementation of the marking OR oracle from an earlier exercise
and use the phase kickback trick to convert it into a phase oracle.

Since in this task you're evaluating OR of all bits except the $k$-th one, you need to exclude the qubit `x[k]` from the list 
of control qubits for the marking oracle. You can do that using slicing: `x[...k - 1]` gets the subarray of qubits before the $k$-th 
one, and `x[k + 1...]` gets the subarray of qubits after the $k$-th one. Your array of control qubits will be a concatenation of these 
two arrays.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    operation Or_Oracle(x : Qubit[], y : Qubit) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        X(y);
        ApplyControlledOnInt(0, X, x, y);
    }

    operation OrOfBitsExceptKth_Oracle(x : Qubit[], k : Int) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        use minus = Qubit();
        within {
            X(minus);
            H(minus);
        } apply {
            Or_Oracle(x[...k - 1] + x[k + 1...], minus);
        }
    }
}
```
