# Phase Kickback

Previously we considered applying marking oracles when the register $\ket{x}$ was in a basis state or a superposition state, and the target qubit $\ket{y}$ was in a basis state.  How might the effect of applying marking oracles change if the target is also in a superposition state?  In this case we might observe **phase kickback** - the relative phase from the target qubit affecting ("kicked back" into) the state of the input qubits.

In order to observe phase kickback, the target qubit is $\ket{y}=\ket{-}$.

> This is the standard choice for two reasons.
> First, for phase kickback to occur, the target qubit must have a difference in relative phase between the basis states $\ket{0}$ and $\ket{1}$.
> Second, the absolute values of the amplitudes of the two basis states of the target qubit must be equal, otherwise the target will become entangled with the input register.

Let's see the results of applying a marking oracle $U_{mark}$ which implements the function $f(x)$ to the input register $\ket{x}$ and the target qubit in state $\ket{-}$:

- If the input register $\ket{x}$ is in a basis state:

$$U_{mark} \ket{x} \ket{-} = \frac1{\sqrt2} \big(U_{mark}\ket{x}\ket{0} - U_{mark}\ket{x} \ket{1}\big) =$$

$$= \frac1{\sqrt2} \big(\ket{x}\ket{0\oplus f(x)} - \ket{x} \ket{1\oplus f(x)}\big) =$$

$$=\begin{cases}
\frac1{\sqrt2} \big(\ket{x}\ket{0} - \ket{x} \ket{1}\big) = \ket{x}\ket{-} \text{ if } f(x) = 0 \\
\frac1{\sqrt2} \big(\ket{x}\ket{1} - \ket{x} \ket{0}\big) = -\ket{x}\ket{-} \text{ if } f(x) = 1
\end{cases}=$$

$$= (-1)^{f(x)}\ket{x} \ket{-}$$

- If the input register is in a superposition state, say $\ket{x} = \frac1{\sqrt2} \big(\ket{b_1} + \ket{b_2}\big)$, where $\ket{b_1}$ and $\ket{b_2}$ are basis states:

$$U_{mark} \ket{x} \ket{-} = U_{mark} \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \big(\ket{b_1} + \ket{b_2}\big) \ket{-} =$$

$$= \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \big( U_{mark}\ket{b_1}\ket{-} + U_{mark}\ket{b_2}\ket{-}\big) =$$

$$= \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \big( (-1)^{f(b_1)}\ket{b_1} + (-1)^{f(b_2)}\ket{b_2}\big) \ket{-}$$

In both cases applying $U_{mark}$ doesn't change the state of the target qubit, but it does change the state of the input register.
Thus you can drop the target qubit without any repercussions after the application of the oracle.
Notice that the input register is now in the following state:
$$\ket{\psi} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \big( (-1)^{f(b_1)}\ket{b_1} + (-1)^{f(b_2)}\ket{b_2}\big),$$

which looks exactly as if you apply a phase oracle to $\ket{x}$ instead of applying a marking oracle to $\ket{x}\ket{-}$!  This is a very important application of phase kickback: it allows to convert a marking oracle into a phase oracle - which you'll implement in the next task.

> Another important application of this effect is **phase estimation** algorithm, which allows to estimate an eigenvalue of an eigenvector.

Consider the following example using the $U_{7,mark}$ oracle. Let's begin with $\ket{x}$ as an equal superposition of the $\ket{110}$ and $\ket{111}$ basis states and $\ket{y}=\ket{-}$, the overall state is:

$$\ket{\eta} = \Big[\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\big(\ket{110} + \ket{111}\big)\Big] \otimes \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\big(\ket{0} - \ket{1}\big) =$$

$$= \frac{1}{2} \big(\ket{110}\ket{0} + \ket{111}\ket{0} - \ket{110}\ket{1} - \ket{111}\ket{1}\big)$$

How does $U_{7,mark}$ act on this state?

$$U_{7,mark}\ket{\eta} = U_{7,mark} \frac{1}{2} \big(\ket{110}\ket{0} + \ket{111}\ket{0} - \ket{110}\ket{1} - \ket{111}\ket{1} \big) =$$

$$= \frac{1}{2} \big( U_{7,mark}\ket{110}\ket{0} + U_{7,mark}\ket{111}\ket{0} - U_{7,mark}\ket{110}\ket{1} - U_{7,mark}\ket{111}\ket{1} \big) =$$

$$= \frac{1}{2} \big(\ket{110}\ket{0} + \ket{111}\ket{1} - \ket{110}\ket{1} - \ket{111}\ket{0} \big) := \ket{\xi}$$

Now you want to observe how your input state $\ket{\eta}$ is modified by the oracle.  Let's simplify the resulting state $\ket{\xi}$:

$$\ket{\xi} = \frac{1}{2} \big(\ket{110}\ket{0} + \ket{111}\ket{1} - \ket{110}\ket{1} - \ket{111}\ket{0}\big) =$$

$$= \frac{1}{2} \big(\ket{110}\ket{0} - \ket{110}\ket{1} - \ket{111}\ket{0} + \ket{111}\ket{1} \big) =$$

$$= \frac{1}{2} \Big[\ket{110} \otimes \big(\ket{0} - \ket{1} \big) + \ket{111} \otimes \big(\ket{1} - \ket{0}\big)\Big] =$$

$$= \Big[\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \big( \ket{110} - \ket{111} \big) \Big] \otimes \Big[ \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \big( \ket{0} - \ket{1} \big) \Big] =$$

$$= \Big[\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \big( \ket{110} - \ket{111} \big) \Big] \otimes \ket{-}$$

Finally, let's compare $\ket{\eta}$ and $\ket{\xi}$; below are the final equations repeated for your convenience:
$$\ket{\eta} = \Big[\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\big(\ket{110} + \ket{111}\big)\Big] \otimes \ket{-}$$
$$\ket{\xi} = \Big[\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\big(\ket{110} - \ket{111}\big)\Big] \otimes \ket{-}$$

You can see that these two equations are identical, except for the $-1$ phase that appeared on the $\ket{111}$ basis state - our marked state.  This is a specific example of the phase kickback effect, as the phase from $\ket{-}$ has been *kicked back* into $\ket{x}$.
