# Implement the Meeting Oracle

Suppose that you'd like to schedule a meeting with your co-worker Jasmine.
You both work five day workweeks, and $\ket{x}$ and $\ket{jasmine}$ are 5-bit states representing your and Jasmine's schedules.
The schedules are indicators of a person being busy on that day: a $1$ bit means that person is busy on that day, and $0$ means they're free for a meeting that day. Implement a function that determines if you and Jasmine can schedule a meeting during the week, that is, whether there is a day when both schedules have a $0$ simultaneously.

**Inputs:**

  1. 5 qubits in an arbitrary state $\ket{x}$ representing your schedule for the week (input/query register).
  2. 5 qubits in an arbitrary state $\ket{jasmine}$ representing Jasmine's schedule for the week (input/query register).
  3. A qubit in an arbitrary state $\ket{y}$ (target qubit).

**Goal:**

Flip the state of $\ket{y}$ if you and Jasmine are both free on the same day for at least one day during the week.  Recall that a $0$ means that a person is free on that day.

**Examples:**

* If $\ket{x}=\ket{10101}$ and $\ket{jasmine}=\ket{01010}$, do nothing (there is no day on which you both are free).
* If $\ket{x}=\ket{10001}$ and $\ket{jasmine}=\ket{01010}$, flip the state $\ket{y}$ (you are both free on Wednesday).
* If $\ket{x}=\ket{00000}$ and $\ket{jasmine}=\ket{00000}$, flip the state $\ket{y}$ (you are both free all week).
* If $\ket{x}=\ket{11111}$ and $\ket{jasmine}=\ket{11111}$, do nothing (you are both busy all week).
    
<br/>
<details>
  <summary><b>Before implementing this oracle, answer the question: are you implementing a marking or a phase oracle?</b></summary>
    This is a marking oracle, because you're flipping the state of the target qubit $\ket{y}$ based on the state of the inputs $\ket{x}$ and $\ket{jasmine}$. Notice that even though you don't have the typical single-input-register situation that we saw earlier, this is still a marking oracle.
</details>

## Solution Notes

In this problem you'll need to allocate extra qubits, one per each day of the week, to serve as temporary variables.
Each of these variables will track whether both people are free on that day, that is, whether both input qubit arrays 
have bit $0$ in the corresponding position. You can compute each of these variables using a $CCNOT$ gate after flipping 
the states of both qubits using $X$ gates. 

After this, you can reuse the marking OR oracle to check whether any of the days are in $\ket{1}$ state.

When you allocate qubits for temporary use during a larger computation, you need to make sure they are returned to the $\ket{0}$ 
state before being released. Unlike your previous experience allocating qubits in demos, though, this time you cannot 
measure these qubits for this - they are likely entangled with the qubits you're still using, so a measurement would 
collapse the state of the whole system, not just the auxiliary qubits. Instead, you have to uncompute the state of these qubits, 
similar to how you uncompute any changes you do to the input qubits to be able to apply controlled gates for the right pattern.
`within ... apply` construct is helpful here as well.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    import Std.Arrays.*;

    operation Or_Oracle(x : Qubit[], y : Qubit) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        X(y);
        ApplyControlledOnInt(0, X, x, y);
    }

    operation Meeting_Oracle(x : Qubit[], jasmine : Qubit[], y : Qubit) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        use qs = Qubit[Length(x)];
        within {
            for i in IndexRange(qs) {
                // flip q[i] if both x and jasmine are free on the given day
                X(x[i]);
                X(jasmine[i]);
                CCNOT(x[i], jasmine[i], qs[i]);
            }
        } apply {
            Or_Oracle(qs, y);
        }
    }
}
```
