# Quantum Oracles

An oracle in the quantum world is a "black box" operation that is used as input to an algorithm (such as Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm or Grover's search algorithm).
Many quantum algorithms assume an oracle implementation of some classical function as input, but this is a very strong assumption - sometimes implementing the oracle for a function is a lot more complex than the algorithm that will use this oracle!  
In this kata, you'll learn the properties of quantum oracles and how to implement them.

A quantum oracle implements a function $f: \{0,1\}^n \rightarrow \{0,1\}^m$, where the input is $n$-bits of the form $x = (x_{0}, x_{1}, \dots, x_{n-1})$. In most commonly used cases $m=1$, that is, the function can return values $0$ or $1$. In this kata, you'll focus on this class of functions.

Quantum oracles operate on qubit arrays (and can take classical parameters as well).  The classical input is encoded into the state of an $n$-qubit register:  
$$\ket{\vec{x}} = \ket{x_0} \otimes \ket{x_1} \otimes ... \otimes \ket{x_{n-1}},$$
where $\ket{x_i}$ represents the state of the $i$-th qubit.  

Oracles must be unitary transformations, and follow the same rules of linear algebra as other quantum operations.
This allows us to define quantum oracles based on their effect on the basis states - tensor products of single-qubit basis states $\ket{0}$ and $\ket{1}$.

> For example, an oracle that implements a function that takes two bits of input is defined using its effect on basis states $\ket{00}$, $\ket{01}$, $\ket{10}$, and $\ket{11}$.  

There are two types of quantum oracles: phase oracles and marking oracles.  Let's take a closer look at them.
