# Phase Oracle for Alternating Bit Pattern Function

Consider the function $f(x)$ that takes three bits of input and returns $1$ if $x=101$ or $x=010$, and $0$ otherwise.

The phase oracle that implements this function takes an array of three qubits as an input, flip the sign of basis states $\ket{101}$ and $\ket{010}$, and leave the rest of the basis states unchanged. Let's see the effect of this oracle on a superposition state.

Source: PhaseOracleAltBit.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    import Std.Diagnostics.*;

    // This operation implements the oracle; we will learn how to implement oracles later in the kata
    operation AlternatingBitPattern_PhaseOracle(x : Qubit[]) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        use q = Qubit();
        X(q);
        ApplyControlledOnBitString([false, true, false], Z, x, q);
        ApplyControlledOnBitString([true, false, true], Z, x, q);
        X(q);
    }

    @EntryPoint()
    operation PhaseOracle_Demo() : Unit {
        use q = Qubit[3];
        ApplyToEachA(H, q);

        Message("Starting state (equal superposition of all basis states):");
        DumpMachine();

        // Apply the oracle
        AlternatingBitPattern_PhaseOracle(q);

        // Print the resulting state; notice which phases changed
        Message("State after applying the phase oracle:");
        DumpMachine();

        ResetAll(q);
    }
}
```

The Multi-Qubit Gates kata introduced the `ApplyControlledOnBitString` function provided by the Q# standard library when discussing controlled gates.
The `ApplyControlledOnBitString` function defines a variant of a gate controlled on a state specified by a bit mask. For example, bit mask `[true, false]` means that the gate should be applied only if the two control qubits are in the $\ket{10}$ state.

The sequence of steps that implement this variant are:

1. Apply the $X$ gate to each control qubit that corresponds to a `false` element of the bit mask. After this, if the control qubits started in the $\ket{10}$ state, they'll end up in the $\ket{11}$ state, and if they started in any other state, they'll end up in any state but $\ket{11}$.
2. Apply the regular controlled version of the gate.
3. Apply the $X$ gate to the same qubits to return them to their original state.

> Notice that the input state in the demo above is an equal superposition of all basis states.
After applying the oracle the absolute values of all amplitudes are the same, but the states $\ket{010}$ and $\ket{101}$ had their phase flipped to negative.
> Recall that these two states are exactly the inputs for which $f(x) = 1$, thus they're exactly the two states we expect to experience a phase flip!

In the next exercise, you'll implement the classical oracle that you've implemented in the first exercise, this time as a quantum phase oracle $U_{7,\text{phase}}$ that encodes the number 7.
