# Marking Oracle for Alternating Bit Pattern Function

Consider the function $f(x)$ that takes three bits of input and returns $1$ if $x=101$ or $x=010$, and $0$ otherwise (it's the function in the lesson "Phase Oracle for Alternating Bit Pattern Function").

The marking oracle that implements this function takes an array of three qubits as an "input" register and an "output" qubit, and flips the state of the output qubit if the input qubit is in basis state $\ket{101}$ or $\ket{010}$, and does nothing otherwise. Let's see the effect of this oracle on a superposition state.

Source: MarkingOracleAltBit.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    import Std.Diagnostics.*;

    // This operation implements the oracle; we will learn how to implement oracles later in the kata
    operation AlternatingBitPattern_MarkingOracle(x : Qubit[], y : Qubit) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        ApplyControlledOnBitString([false, true, false], X, x, y);
        ApplyControlledOnBitString([true, false, true], X, x, y);
    }

    @EntryPoint()
    operation MarkingOracle_Demo() : Unit {
        use (x, y) = (Qubit[3], Qubit());
        ApplyToEachA(H, x);

        Message("Starting state (equal superposition of all basis states ⊗ |0⟩):");
        DumpMachine();

        // Apply the oracle
        AlternatingBitPattern_MarkingOracle(x, y);

        // Print the resulting state; notice which amplitudes changed
        Message("State after applying the marking oracle:");
        DumpMachine();

        ResetAll(x + [y]);
    }
}
```

> Let's compare the initial state to the final state from the above demo.
In the initial state, there's a tensor product of an equal superposition of all three-qubit basis states and the state $\ket{0}$.  In the final state, this is no longer the case.
The basis states $\ket{010} \otimes \ket{0}$ and $\ket{101} \otimes \ket{0}$ no longer have non-zero amplitudes, and instead $\ket{010} \otimes \ket{1}$ and $\ket{101} \otimes \ket{1}$ have non-zero amplitudes.
>
> This is exactly the expected result. Recall the function $f(x)$: $f(x)=1$ if and only if $x=010$ or $x=101$.  The first three qubits (variable `x`) represent the input state $\ket{x}$, and the last qubit (variable `y`) represents the output state $\ket{y}$.  Thus for the two basis states, $\ket{x}=\ket{010}$ or $\ket{x}=\ket{101}$, the function flips the state of the qubit $\ket{y}$, causing these two initial states to be tensored with $\ket{1}$ in the final state where originally they were tensored with $\ket{0}$.
>
> Since the rest of the basis states correspond to $f(x) = 0$, all other basis states in the initial superposition remain unchanged.

Now you'll implement the same function you've seen in the first two exercises as a marking oracle $U_{7,mark}$.
