# The Concept of Qubit

The basic building block of a classical computer is the bit - a single memory cell that is either in state $0$ or in state $1$. Similarly, the basic building block of a quantum computer is the quantum bit, or **qubit**. Like the classical bit, a qubit can be in state $0$ or in state $1$. Unlike the classical bit, however, the qubit isn't limited to just those two states - it may also be in a combination, or **superposition** of those states.

> A common misconception about quantum computing is that a qubit is always in state $1$ or state $0$, and we just don't know which one until we "measure" it. That's not the case. A qubit in a superposition is in a linear combination of the states 0 and 1. When a qubit is measured, it's forced to collapse into one state or the other - in other words, measuring a qubit is an irreversible process that changes its initial state.

## Matrix Representation

The state of a qubit is represented by a complex vector of size 2:

$$\begin{bmatrix} \alpha \\ \beta \end{bmatrix}$$

Here $\alpha$ and $\beta$ are complex numbers. $\alpha$ represents how "close" the qubit is to state $0$, and $\beta$ represents how "close" the qubit is to state $1$. This vector is normalized: $|\alpha|^2 + |\beta|^2 = 1$.
$\alpha$ and $\beta$ are known as the probability amplitudes of states $0$ and $1$, respectively.

## Basis States

A qubit in state $0$ would be represented by the following vector:

$$\begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix}$$

Likewise, a qubit in state $1$ would be represented by this vector:

$$\begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix}$$

Note that you can use scalar multiplication and vector addition to express any qubit state $\begin{bmatrix} \alpha \\ \beta \end{bmatrix}$ as a sum of these two vectors with certain weights $\alpha$ and $\beta$, known as linear combination.

$$
\begin{bmatrix} \alpha \\ \beta \end{bmatrix} =
\begin{bmatrix} \alpha \\ 0 \end{bmatrix} + \begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ \beta \end{bmatrix} =
\alpha \cdot \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix} + \beta \cdot \begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix}
$$

Because of this, qubit states $0$ and $1$ are known as **basis states**. These two vectors have two properties.

1. They are normalized.

    $$
    \langle \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix} , \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix} \rangle =
    \langle \begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix} , \begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix} \rangle = 1
    $$

2. They are orthogonal to each other.

    $$
    \langle \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix} , \begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix} \rangle =
    \langle \begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix} , \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix} \rangle = 0
    $$

> As a reminder, $\langle V , W \rangle$ is the inner product of $V$ and $W$.

This means that these vectors form an **orthonormal basis**. The basis of $\begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix}$ and $\begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix}$ is called the **computational basis**, also known as the **canonical basis**.

> There exist other orthonormal bases, for example, the **Hadamard basis**, formed by the vectors
>
> $$\begin{bmatrix} \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \\ \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \end{bmatrix} \text{ and } \begin{bmatrix} \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \\ -\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \end{bmatrix}$$
>
> You can check that these vectors are normalized, and orthogonal to each other. Any qubit state can be expressed as a linear combination of these vectors:
>
> $$
> \begin{bmatrix} \alpha \\ \beta \end{bmatrix} =
> \frac{\alpha + \beta}{\sqrt{2}} \begin{bmatrix} \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \\ \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \end{bmatrix} +
> \frac{\alpha - \beta}{\sqrt{2}} \begin{bmatrix} \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \\ -\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \end{bmatrix}
> $$
>
> The Hadamard basis is widely used in quantum computing, for example, in the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BB84" target="_blank">BB84 quantum key distribution protocol</a>.
