# Q# Qubit Data Type

In Q#, qubits are represented by the `Qubit` data type. On a physical quantum computer, it's impossible to directly access the state of a qubit, whether to read its exact state, or to set it to a desired state, and this data type reflects that. Instead, you can change the state of a qubit using quantum gates, and extract information about the state of the system using measurements.

That being said, when you run Q# code on a quantum simulator instead of a physical quantum computer, you can use diagnostic functions that allow you to peek at the state of the quantum system. This is very useful both for learning and for debugging small Q# programs.

Qubits aren't an ordinary data type, so the variables of this type have to be declared and initialized ("allocated") a little differently. The `use` statement allocates a qubit (or multiple) that can be used until the end of the scope in which the statement was used: `use q = Qubit();` allocates a qubit and binds it to the variable `q`.

Freshly allocated qubits start out in state $\ket{0}$, and have to be returned to that state by the time they are released. If you attempt to release a qubit in any state other than $\ket{0}$, it will result in a runtime error. You will see why it is important later, when you look at multi-qubit systems.

## Visualizing Quantum State

Before continuing, let's learn some techniques to visualize the quantum state of the qubits.

### Display the Quantum State of a Single-Qubit Program

Let's start with a simple scenario: a program that acts on a single qubit.
The state of the quantum system used by this program can be represented as a complex vector of length 2, or, using Dirac notation,

$$\begin{bmatrix} \alpha \\ \beta \end{bmatrix} = \alpha\ket{0} + \beta\ket{1}$$

If this program runs on a physical quantum system, there's no way to get the information about the values of $\alpha$ and $\beta$ at a certain point of the program execution from a single observation.
You would need to run the program repeatedly up to this point, perform a measurement on the system, and aggregate the results of multiple measurements to estimate $\alpha$ and $\beta$.

However, at the early stages of quantum program development the program typically runs on a simulator - a classical program which simulates the behavior of a small quantum system while having complete information about its internal state.
You can take advantage of this to do some non-physical things, such as peeking at the internals of the quantum system to observe its exact state without disturbing it!

The `DumpMachine` function from the `Std.Diagnostics` namespace allows you to do exactly that. The output of `DumpMachine` is accurate up to a global phase, and remember that global phase does not have any physical meaning. When using `DumpMachine`, you may see that all probability amplitudes are multiplied by some complex number compared to the state you're expecting.

### Demo: DumpMachine For Single-Qubit Systems

The following demo shows how to allocate a qubit and examine its state in Q#. You'll use `DumpMachine` to output the state of the system at any point in the program without affecting the state.

> Note that the Q# code doesn't have access to the output of `DumpMachine`, so you can't write any non-physical code in Q#!

Source: SingleQubitDumpMachineDemo.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    import Std.Diagnostics.*;

    @EntryPoint()
    operation RunExample() : Unit {
        // This line allocates a qubit in state |0⟩.
        use q = Qubit();
        Message("State |0⟩:");

        // This line prints out the state of the quantum computer.
        // Since only one qubit is allocated, only its state is printed.
        DumpMachine();

        // This line changes the qubit from state |0⟩ to state |1⟩.
        X(q);

        Message("State |1⟩:");
        DumpMachine();

        // This line changes the qubit to state |-⟩ = (1/sqrt(2))(|0⟩ - |1⟩).
        // That is, this puts the qubit into a superposition where the absolute
        // value of the probability amplitudes is 1/sqrt(2), which is
        // approximately 0.707107.
        H(q);

        Message("State |-⟩:");
        DumpMachine();

        // This line changes the qubit to state |-i⟩ = (1/sqrt(2))(|0⟩ - i|1⟩).
        S(q);

        Message("State |-i⟩:");
        DumpMachine();

        // This will put the qubit into an uneven superposition, where the
        // amplitudes of |0⟩ and |1⟩ have different absolute values.
        Rx(2.0, q);
        Ry(1.0, q);

        Message("Uneven superposition state:");
        DumpMachine();

        // This line returns the qubit to state |0⟩, which must be done before
        // the qubit is released or otherwise a runtime error might occur.
        Reset(q);
    }
}
```

The exact behavior of the `RunExample` operation depends on the quantum simulator or processor you're using.

On the simulator used in these demos, this function prints the information on each basis state that has a non-zero amplitude, one basis state per row.
This includes information about the amplitude of the state, the probability of measuring that state, and the phase of the state.

Note that each row has the following format:

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Basis State</th>
            <th>Amplitude</th>
            <th>Measurement Probability</th>
            <th>Phase</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
</table>

For example, the state $\ket{0}$ would be represented as follows:

<table>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>|0⟩</td>
            <td>1.0000+0.0000𝑖</td>
            <td>100.0000%</td>
            <td>↑ 0.0000</td></tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

> It's important to note that although we talk about quantum systems in terms of their state, Q# does not have any representation of the quantum state in the language. Instead, state is an internal property of the quantum system, modified using gates. For more information, see <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/quantum/concepts-dirac-notation#q-gate-sequences-equivalent-to-quantum-states" target="_blank">Q# documentation on quantum states</a>.
