# BB84 Quantum Key Distribution Protocol

BB84 protocol, named after its inventors Charles H. Bennett and Gilles Brassard and year of publication, is one of the first proposed quantum key distribution protocols and probably the most famous one.

BB84 protocol consists of the two main phases:

1. During the first phase, Alice prepares individual qubits following a certain procedure and then sends them to Bob via the quantum channel to be measured. Alice takes notes of the classical decisions she made when preparing the qubits, and Bob takes notes of his decisions when measuring the qubits and the measurement results.

2. The second phase is entirely classical post-processing and communication: Alice and Bob discuss their data from the first phase and extract a classical, random bit string they can use as a shared key.

Let's start by looking at how Alice prepares her qubits for sending them to Bob.

Alice has two choices for each qubit, which basis to prepare it in, and what bit value she wants to encode.
In the first basis, the computational basis, Alice prepares the states $\ket{0}$ and $\ket{1}$ where $\ket{0}$ represents the key bit value `0` and $\ket{1}$ represents the key bit value `1`.
The second basis, Hadamard basis (sometimes also called the diagonal basis), uses the states $\ket{+} = \frac{1}{\sqrt2}(\ket{0} + \ket{1})$ to represent the key bit value `0`, and $\ket{-} = \frac{1}{\sqrt2}(\ket{0} - \ket{1})$ to represent the key bit value `1`.

<table>
  <tr>
    <th style="text-align:center">Basis</th>
    <th style="text-align:center">Bit 0</th>
    <th style="text-align:center">Bit 1</th>    
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td style="text-align:center">Computational basis</td>
    <td style="text-align:center">$\ket{0}$</td>
    <td style="text-align:center">$\ket{1}$</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td style="text-align:center">Hadamard basis</td>
    <td style="text-align:center">$\ket{+}$</td>
    <td style="text-align:center">$\ket{-}$</td>
  </tr>
</table>

The bases used in the protocol are selected such that if an eavesdropper tries to measure a qubit in transit and chooses the wrong basis, then they just get a 0 or 1 measurement result with equal probability.

Alice has to make two random choices for each qubit she prepares, one for which basis to prepare in, and the other for what bit value she wants to send, choosing each option with $50\%$ probability.
If Alice decides to send $N$ qubits, she needs to make $2N$ random choices, usually implemented as two arrays of $N$ choices each.

Once Bob receives the qubits from Alice, he needs to decide in which basis, computational or Hadamard, to measure each of them, and these decisions are also random, with each basis chosen with $50\%$ probability.

Finally, at the end of the first phase of the protocol, Alice has a list of the bit values she sent as well as what basis she prepared each qubit in, and Bob has a list of bases he used to measure each qubit. 

To extract the shared key, they need to figure out when they both used the same basis, and toss the data from qubits where they used different bases. If Alice and Bob didn't use the same basis to prepare and measure the qubits in, the measurement results Bob got will be just random bits with $50\%$ probability for both the 0 and 1 outcomes. But if they used the same basis, Bob's measurement result will match the bit Alice sent.

This means that by exchanging information about the bases Alice and Bob used for preparation and measurements via a public classical communication channel, they can deduce which parts of their lists of bits they kept private are identical, and use them as their shared key!

Now that you've learned the theory behind the BB84 protocol, let's implement its steps to see it in action!
