# Generate the Shared Key

Now, Alice has a list of the bit values she sent as well as what basis she prepared each qubit in, and Bob has a list of bases he used to measure each qubit and a list of measurement results. To extract the shared key, they need to figure out when they both used the same basis, keep the data from those steps, and toss the data from steps where they used different bases.

**Inputs:**

1. `basesAlice` and `basesBob`: `Bool` arrays of length $N$ describing Alice's and Bobs's choice of encoding/measurement bases, respectively.
2. `bits`: a `Bool` array of length $N$ describing either the bits Alice sent or Bob's measurement results.

**Output** : A `Bool` array representing the shared key generated by the protocol.

> You don't need to know both Alice's and Bob's bits to figure out the shared key - only one set of bits is enough!

## Solution Notes

If Alice and Bob exchanged a qubit and used the same bases for preparing and measuring it, the bit produced by Bob's measurement would be the same as the one Alice encoded. Thus, they don't need to share the bits they chose or obtained over the classical communication channel. Sharing the bases used for each of the qubit is sufficient to understand if their bits match or not.

To complete this task, you need to perform the following steps:

1. Declare an empty mutable array, let's name it `key`.
2. Decide which bits you can add to the key based on the comparison between bases used by Alice and Bob. You can iterate using an index in the range from $0$ to $N - 1$ and compare the bases in the corresponding positions.
3. Return the required `key`.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    function GenerateSharedKey(basesAlice : Bool[], basesBob : Bool[], bits : Bool[]) : Bool[] {
        mutable key = [];
        for i in 0 .. Length(bits) - 1 {
            if basesAlice[i] == basesBob[i] {
                set key += [bits[i]];
            }
        }

        return key;
    }
}
```
