# QPE Algorithm: Practical Considerations

Now that you've learned to implement the QPE algorithm, let's discuss several practical aspects of its applications.

### Applying QPE to a superposition of eigenvectors

First of all, the algorithm inputs include an eigenvector of the unitary for which you want to estimate the eigenphase. In some applications, the eigenvector is either unknown or hard to prepare accurately. Is there a workaround for these scenarios?

To answer this, let's see what happens if you run the phase estimation algorithm for a state $\ket{\phi}$ that is not an eigenstate of the unitary $U$.

For any unitary $U$, you can find a basis that consists of its eigenvectors. This means that any state $\ket{\phi}$ can be represented as a superposition of eigenvectors $\ket{\psi_k}$: 
$$\ket{\phi} = \sum_k a_k\ket{\psi_k}$$

You can notice that all the steps of the QPE algorithm until the final measurement are linear transformations. This means that you can apply them to each term in the superposition independently.

The state of the system right before the final measurement will look as follows:

$$\sum_k a_k \ket{j_k} \ket{\psi_k}$$

Here $j_k$ is the integer representation of the $n$ binary digits of the eigenphase that corresponds to the eigenvector $\ket{\psi_k}$. 

Now, when you measure the first register, this measurement will cause the collapse of the superposition: you'll get one of the values $j_k$ that describes one of the eigenphases, and the second register will collapse to the matching eigenvector.

This means that if you're looking for *any* eigenphase of the unitary, you can just run the QPE algorithm with any state in place of the eigenvector. And if you know the eigenvector you want to use but it's tricky to prepare precisely, you can prepare it approximately and run the QPE algorithm on this state to get the eigenphase associated with it with high probability.

### Eigenphases that are not $n$-bit binary fractions

The algorithm derivation in the previous lesson assumed that the eigenphase $\theta$ can be written down with exactly $n$ binary bits of precision. However, this is not always the case. What happens if the eigenphase of the given eigenvector can't be written down using exactly $n$ binary bits?

It turns out that the QPE algorithm running with $n$ bits of precision is deterministic only for eigenphases that can be represented precisely as $n$-bit binary fractions. Running it for any eigenphases that don't have such a representation yields probabilistic results. The outcomes that are the closest $n$-bit fractions to the true eigenphase are produced with the highest probability, but it's also possible to get outcomes that are pretty far away from the true eigenphase.

The following demo allows you to play with the QPE algorithm for different eigenphases and to observe its behavior in different scenarios.
For example, you can see that running phase estimation for the gate `R1Frac(1, 3, _)` which has eigenphase $\frac1{16} = 0.0625$
with $n = 3$ bits of precision yields non-deterministic results, with the two most frequent outcomes being $0$ and $\frac18 = 0.125$.

Source: QuantumPhaseEstimationDemo.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    import Std.Convert.*;
    import Std.Diagnostics.*;
    import Std.Math.*;

    @EntryPoint()
    operation QuantumPhaseEstimationDemo() : Unit {
        // Experiment with the parameters to explore algorithm behavior for different eigenphases!
        // Use R1Frac(k, n, _) for eigenvalue exp(2π𝑖 k/2^(n+1)), eigenphase k/2^(n+1)
        // or R1(theta, _) for eigenvalue exp(2π𝑖 theta/2), eigenphase theta/2
        // Here are some convenient unitaries and their eigenphases
        // R1Frac(1, 0, _)   |  0.5
        // R1Frac(1, 1, _)   |  0.25
        // R1Frac(1, 2, _)   |  0.125
        // R1Frac(1, 3, _)   |  0.0625
        let U = R1Frac(1, 3, _);
        let P = X;     // |1⟩ basis state is convenient to experiment with R1 and R1Frac gates
        let n = 3;
        mutable counts = [0, size = 2^n];
        for _ in 1..100 {
            let res = PhaseEstimation(U, P, n);
            set counts w/= res <- counts[res] + 1;
        }
        for i in 0..2^n - 1 {
            if counts[i] > 0 {
                Message($"Eigenphase {IntAsDouble(i) / IntAsDouble(2^n)} - {counts[i]}%");
            }
        }
    }

    operation PhaseEstimation(
        U : Qubit => Unit is Ctl,
        P : Qubit => Unit,
        n : Int
    ) : Int {
        use (phaseRegister, eigenstate) = (Qubit[n], Qubit());
        P(eigenstate);
        ApplyToEach(H, phaseRegister);
        for k in 0..n - 1 {
            for _ in 1..1 <<< k {
                Controlled U([phaseRegister[k]], eigenstate);
            }
        }
        SwapReverseRegister(phaseRegister);
        Adjoint ApplyQFT(phaseRegister);

        Reset(eigenstate);
        return MeasureInteger(phaseRegister);
    }
}
```
