# Evaluate One Clause

**Inputs:**

1. $N$ qubits in an arbitrary state $\ket{x}$ (input/query register).
2. A qubit in an arbitrary state $\ket{y}$ (output/target qubit).
3. An array of tuples `clause` which describes one clause of a SAT problem instance $clause(x)$.
   Each tuple is an `(Int, Bool)` pair describing one component of the clause:
   - the first element is the index $j$ of the variable $x_j$, 
   - the second element is `true` if the variable is included as itself ($x_j$) and `false` if it is included as a negation ($\neg x_j$).

For example, clause $x_0 \vee \neg x_1$ can be represented as `[(0, true), (1, false)]`.

**Goal:**
Implement a quantum oracle which evaluates the clause $clause(x)$.
    
Leave the qubits in the input register in the same state they started in.
Your solution should work on inputs in superposition, and not use any measurements.

## Solution Notes

This task involves evaluating a clause which is a disjunction (OR) of negated and non-negated variables encoded in the input $x$. 
This can be done in two steps:

1. First, flip the qubits which are negated in `clause` (and later undo this operation).  
   To do this, apply an $X$ gate to qubit $j$ if and only if the clause has a term of the form `(j, false)`.
2. Use the $U_{or}$ unitary (implemented by the operation `Oracle_Or`) to calculate the clause.  
   To do this, you need to first construct an array `clauseQubits` - all qubits which are included as a negated or non-negated variable in the clause. Then, you can apply the `Oracle_Or` operation to qubits `clauseQubits` and `y`.

Note that the implementation of `Oracle_SATClause` should be adjointable, and it's nice to be able to rely on Q# compiler to generate the adjoint variant of this operation.
That's why the solution uses the library function `Mapped` instead of classical computations that involve manipulating mutable variables - those would have to be moved to a separate function, making the code bulkier.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    import Std.Arrays.*;
    operation Oracle_SATClause(x : Qubit[], y : Qubit, clause : (Int, Bool)[]) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        let clauseQubits = Mapped((ind, _) -> x[ind], clause);
        within {
            for (ind, positive) in clause {
                if not positive {
                    X(x[ind]);
                }
            }
        } apply {
            Oracle_Or(clauseQubits, y);
        }
    }

    operation Oracle_Or(x : Qubit[], y : Qubit) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        ApplyControlledOnInt(0, X, x, y);
        X(y);
    }
}
```
