# Evaluate SAT Formula

**Inputs:**

1. $N$ qubits in an arbitrary state $\ket{x}$ (input/query register).
2. A qubit in an arbitrary state $\ket{y}$ (output/target qubit).
3. A two-dimensional array of tuples `formula` which describes a SAT problem instance $f(x)$.
   $i$-th element of `formula` is an array of tuples that describes the $i$-th clause of $f(x)$ using the same format as the previous exercise. 

For example, a two-variable SAT formula that evaluates the XOR of two inputs $f(x) = (x_0 \vee x_1) \wedge (\neg x_0 \vee \neg x_1)$ can be represented as `[[(0, true), (1, true)], [(0, false), (1, false)]]`.

**Goal:**
Implement a quantum oracle which evaluates the formula $f(x)$.
    
Leave the qubits in the input register in the same state they started in.
Your solution should work on inputs in superposition, and not use any measurements.

## Solution Notes

This task consists of a conjunction (AND) of results of multiple clause evaluations. Each clause individually can be evaluated using the code you've written in the previous exercise. The computation results of these clauses must be stored temporarily in freshly allocated qubits. Then the conjunction of these results can be computed using `Oracle_And` from the first exercise.

Let's denote the number of clauses in the formula as $m$. The steps for implementing the SAT oracle will be:

1. Allocate an array of $m$ qubits `aux` in the state $\ket{0}$.
2. Evaluate each clause using `Oracle_SATClause` from the previous exercise, with the corresponding element of `aux` as the target qubit.
3. Evaluate the SAT formula using `Oracle_And` implemented in the first task with `aux` as the input register and `target` as the target qubit.
4. Undo step 2 to restore the auxiliary qubits back into the $\ket{0}$ state before releasing them.

You can again use the within-apply Q# language construct to perform steps 2, 3 and 4 with the last step generated automatically.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    import Std.Arrays.*;

    operation Oracle_SATFormula(x : Qubit[], y : Qubit, formula : (Int, Bool)[][]) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        use aux = Qubit[Length(formula)];
        within {
            for i in 0..Length(formula) - 1 {
                Oracle_SATClause(x, aux[i], formula[i]);
            }
        } apply {
            Oracle_And(aux, y);
        }
    }

    operation Oracle_SATClause(x : Qubit[], y : Qubit, clause : (Int, Bool)[]) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        let clauseQubits = Mapped((ind, _) -> x[ind], clause);
        within {
            for (ind, positive) in clause {
                if not positive {
                    X(x[ind]);
                }
            }
        } apply {
            Oracle_Or(clauseQubits, y);
        }
    }

    operation Oracle_Or(x : Qubit[], y : Qubit) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        ApplyControlledOnInt(0, X, x, y);
        X(y);
    }

    operation Oracle_And(x : Qubit[], y : Qubit) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        Controlled X(x, y);
    }
}
```
