# Single-Qubit Oracles

In the quantum scenario, the classical function you're working with is implemented as a quantum oracle - a "black box" operation used as input to another algorithm. This operation is implemented in a way which allows to perform calculations not only on individual inputs, but also on superpositions of inputs. 

The oracle has to act on quantum states instead of classical values. 
To enable this, integer input $x$ is represented as a qubit state $\ket{x}$.

The type of oracles used in this tutorial are called *phase oracles*. A phase oracle $U_f$ encodes the value of the classical function $f$ it implements in the phase of the qubit state as follows:

$$U_f \ket{x} = (-1)^{f(x)} \ket{x}$$

In this case $f$ can return only two values, 0 or 1, which result in no phase change or multiplication by a relative phase $-1$, respectively.

The effect of such an oracle on any single basis state isn't particularly interesting: it just adds a global phase which isn't something you can observe. However, if you apply this oracle to a *superposition* of basis states, its effect becomes noticeable. 
Remember that quantum operations are linear: if you define the effect of an operation on the basis states, you'll be able to deduce its effect on superposition states (which are just linear combinations of the basis states) using its linearity.

There are only four single-bit functions, so you can see how to implement them all as phase oracles in Q#.

1. $f(x) \equiv 0$

This is the easiest function to implement: if $f(x) \equiv 0$, 

$$U_f \ket{x} \equiv (-1)^0 \ket{x} = \ket{x}$$

This means that $U_f$ is an identity - a transformation which does absolutely nothing! 

2. $f(x) \equiv 1$

The second constant function is slightly trickier: if $f(x) \equiv 1$

$$U_f \ket{x} \equiv (-1)^1 \ket{x} = - \ket{x}$$

Now $U_f$ is a negative identity, that is, a transformation which applies a global phase of $-1$ to the state. 
A lot of algorithms just ignore the global phase accumulated in them, since it isn't observable. 
However, if you want to be really meticulous, you can use the $R$ gate which performs a given rotation around the given axis. 
When called with `PauliI` axis, this operation applies a global phase to the given qubit.

3. $f(x) = x$

$$U_f \ket{x} = (-1)^{f(x)} \ket{x} = (-1)^{x} \ket{x}$$

This means that you don't need to do anything if the qubit is in the $\ket{0}$ state, and apply a phase of $-1$ if it is in the $\ket{1}$ state. This is exactly the effect of the $Z$ gate!

In the following demo, you'll see how to implement the first three one-bit functions as quantum oracles, and their effect on a qubit state.
After that, you'll try to implement the oracle for the fourth function on your own!

Source: OracleImplementationDemo.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    import Std.Diagnostics.*;
    import Std.Math.*;

    operation PhaseOracle_Zero(x : Qubit) : Unit {
        // Do nothing...
    }

    operation PhaseOracle_One(x : Qubit) : Unit {
        // Apply a global phase of -1
        R(PauliI, 2.0 * PI(), x);
    }

    operation PhaseOracle_X(x : Qubit) : Unit {
        Z(x);
    }

    @EntryPoint()
    operation OracleImplementationDemo() : Unit {
        use q = Qubit();
        Ry(2.0 * ArcCos(0.6), q);
        Message("The qubit state before oracle application is 0.6|0⟩ + 0.8|0⟩:");
        DumpMachine();

        // Apply the oracle.
        // Experiment with using other oracles to see their behavior!
        // (Note that the -1 global phase might not show up in simulation)
        PhaseOracle_X(q);

        Message("The qubit state after oracle application:");
        DumpMachine();

        Reset(q);
    }
}
```
