# Solving the Problem: Deutsch Algorithm

Now let's return to the problem of figuring out whether the given function is constant or variable for single-bit functions.
What can we do if we are given a quantum oracle $U_f$ implementing the function $f(x)$?

There are two possible inputs to the function, $\ket{0}$ and $\ket{1}$. Let's see what happens if you apply the oracle to their superposition:

$$U_f \left( \frac{1}{\sqrt2} \big( \ket{0} + \ket{1} \big) \right) 
= \frac{1}{\sqrt2} \big( U_f \ket{0} + U_f \ket{1} \big) 
= \frac{1}{\sqrt2} \big( (-1)^{f(0)} \ket{0} + (-1)^{f(1)} \ket{1} \big)$$.

- If $f(0) = f(1)$, the relative phases of the two basis states are the same, and the resulting state is $\ket{+} = \frac{1}{\sqrt2} \big( \ket{0} + \ket{1} \big)$ (up to a global phase). 
- If $f(0) \neq f(1)$, the relative phases of the two basis states differ by a factor of $-1$, and the resulting state is $\ket{-} = \frac{1}{\sqrt2} \big( \ket{0} - \ket{1} \big)$ (up to a global phase). 

Now, the states $\ket{+}$ and $\ket{-}$ can be distinguished using measurement: if you apply the H gate to each of them, you'll get $H\ket{+} = \ket{0}$ if $f(0) = f(1)$, or $H\ket{-} = \ket{1}$ if $f(0) \neq f(1)$. This means that one oracle call doesn't let you calculate both $f(0)$ and $f(1)$, but it allows you to figure out whether $f(0) = f(1)$!

Overall, the algorithm is very straightforward:

1. Start with a qubit in the $\ket{0}$ state.
2. Apply the $H$ gate to the qubit.
3. Apply the oracle.
4. Apply the $H$ gate to the qubit again.
5. Measure the qubit: if it's in the $\ket{0}$ state, the function is constant, otherwise it's variable.

Note that this algorithm requires only **1** oracle call, and always produces the correct result (the algorithm is deterministic).
