# Is Number Divisible by 3?

**Inputs:** 

1. $N$ qubits in an arbitrary state $\ket{x}$ (input/query register).
2. A qubit in an arbitrary state $\ket{y}$ (output/target qubit).

**Goal:** 
Implement a quantum oracle which checks whether the number represented by the bit string is divisible by $3$.
Use little endian notation to convert the bit string to an integer, i.e., the least significant bit is stored in `x[0]`.

For example, for $N = 3$ the basis states that should be marked are $\ket{000} = \ket{0}$, $\ket{110} = \ket{3}$, and $\ket{011} = \ket{6}$.

Leave the qubits in the input register in the same state they started in.
Your solution should work on inputs in superposition, and not use any measurements.

## Solution Notes

This problem is similar to the previous one: we will be calculating an expression modulo $3$, so we'll use the `IncrementMod3` operation defined in the previous task as a building block. 

However, this time we'll need to both increment and decrement numbers modulo $3$. Fortunately, decrement is just an adjoint of increment, and Q# compiler can generate it for you automatically, without you implementing it by hand.

This time you need an extra trick: instead of just counting the number of $1$ bits modulo $3$, you need to calculate the remainder of dividing the number by $3$. You can use the fact that consecutive powers of $2$ give remainders $1$ and $-1$ in turn: $2^0 \equiv 1 \mod 3$, $2^1 = 2 \equiv -1 \mod 3$, $2^2 = 4 \equiv 1 \mod 3$, $2^3 = 8 \equiv -1 \mod 3$, and so on. You start iterating from the least significant bit of the number, performing controlled increment of the counter qubits with qubits 0, 2, 4, ... as controls, and controlled decrement with qubits 1, 3, 5, ... as controls.

Finally, the number itself will be divisible by $3$ only if the counter qubits are in the $\ket{00}$ state.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    operation Oracle_DivisibleBy3 (x : Qubit[], y : Qubit) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        use counter = Qubit[2];
        within {
            for i in 0 .. Length(x) - 1 {
                if i % 2 == 0 {
                    Controlled IncrementMod3([x[i]], counter);
                } else {
                    Controlled Adjoint IncrementMod3([x[i]], counter);
                }
            }
        } apply {
            ApplyControlledOnInt(0, X, counter, y);
        }
    }

    operation IncrementMod3 (counterRegister : Qubit[]) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        let sum = counterRegister[0];
        let carry = counterRegister[1];
        ApplyControlledOnInt(0, X, [carry], sum);
        ApplyControlledOnInt(0, X, [sum], carry);
    }    
}
```
