# Is Bit Sum Divisible by 3?

**Inputs:** 

1. $N$ qubits in an arbitrary state $\ket{x}$ (input/query register).
2. A qubit in an arbitrary state $\ket{y}$ (output/target qubit).

**Goal:** 
Implement a quantum oracle which checks whether the sum of bits in the bit string is divisible by $3$.

For example, for $N = 3$ the only basis states that should be marked are $\ket{000}$ and $\ket{111}$.

Leave the qubits in the input register in the same state they started in.
Your solution should work on inputs in superposition, and not use any measurements.

## Solution Notes

Let's start by considering a simpler version of the problem. How would you check whether the number of bits equal
to $1$ is divisible by $2$? 

You can just iterate over the input qubits and do a sequence of $CNOT$ gates with each of them as
the control and the output qubit as the target. The fact that $CNOT$ does a controlled flip of the state makes sure that
this is the same as taking sum of the bits modulo $2$, so in the end you just flip it again to become $1$ if the sum modulo
$2$ was $0$.

You can use the same approach here, but you need to implement addition modulo $3$ as an elementary operation.
To do this, you use a counter with two qubits in it (storing `sum` qubit first and `carry` second) and figure out the rules of updating them in a way
which allows to go from $\ket{0_{sum}0_{carry}}$ to $\ket{1_{sum}0_{carry}}$ to $\ket{0_{sum}1_{carry}}$ to $\ket{0_{sum}0_{carry}}$ with each increment. (The basis state $\ket{1_{sum}1_{carry}}$ remains unchanged to keep the transformation unitary, though we'll never use it in our solution.) One way to do this is as follows:

1. Start by updating the `sum` bit.  
   The `sum` changes if `carry` is $0$, and remains unchanged otherwise. We can implement this using controlled-on-zero $X$ gate.
2. Then, update the `carry` bit.
   It changes if the updated `sum` bit is $0$, which can be done using another controlled-on-zero $X$ gate.

With `IncrementMod3` operation implemented, you iterate over the input qubits and count the number of $1$ bits among them modulo $3$. If both counter qubits end up in $\ket{0}$ state, the number of $1$ bits is divisible by $3$, and you need to flip the target qubit.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    operation Oracle_BitSumDivisibleBy3 (x : Qubit[], y : Qubit) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        use counter = Qubit[2];
        within {
            for q in x {
                Controlled IncrementMod3([q], counter);
            }
        } apply {
            ApplyControlledOnInt(0, X, counter, y);
        }
    }

    operation IncrementMod3 (counterRegister : Qubit[]) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        let sum = counterRegister[0];
        let carry = counterRegister[1];
        ApplyControlledOnInt(0, X, [carry], sum);
        ApplyControlledOnInt(0, X, [sum], carry);
    }    
}
```
