# Product Function with Negation

**Inputs:** 

1. $N$ qubits in an arbitrary state $\ket{x}$ (input/query register).
2. A qubit in an arbitrary state $\ket{y}$ (output/target qubit).
3. A bit vector $r$ of length $N$ represented as a `Bool[]`.

**Goal:** 
Implement a marking oracle which calculates the following function:
$$f(x) = \bigoplus\limits_{i=0}^{N-1} \left(r_i x_i \oplus (1 - r_i) (1 - x_i) \right)$$

In other words, for each basis state $\ket{x}$, flip the state of the target qubit $\ket{y}$ if $f(x) = 1$, and leave it unchanged otherwise.
Leave the qubits in the input register in the same state they started in. 
Your solution should work on inputs in superposition, and not use any measurements.

<details>
<summary><strong>Need a hint?</strong></summary>
Since each addition is done modulo $2$, you can evaluate the effect of each term independently.
</details>

## Solution Notes

Again, this problem is similar to the previous one. This time, each input qubit `x[j]` always affects the state of the target qubit, and the matching classical input `r[i]` specifies the way how it does that. 
If the bit `r[i]` is `true`, the state of the target qubit is flipped if the input qubit `x[j]` is in the $\ket{1}$ state;
otherwise, it is flipped if `x[j]` is in the $\ket{0}$ state. (You can check that this is exactly what the formula 
$\left(r_i x_i \oplus (1 - r_i) (1 - x_i) \right)$ evaluates to!)

This means that we need to modify our solution to the previous task to add a second clause to the if statement, to handle the case when `r[i]` is `false`. The gate we need to apply in this scenario is controlled-on-zero $X$, which we can implement using the library operation `ApplyControlledOnInt`.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    operation Oracle_ProductWithNegation(x : Qubit[], y : Qubit, r : Bool[]) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        for i in 0 .. Length(x) - 1 {
            if r[i] {
                CNOT(x[i], y);
            } else {
                ApplyControlledOnInt(0, X, [x[i]], y);
            }
        }
    }
}
```
