# Palindrome Checker

**Inputs:** 

1. $N$ qubits in an arbitrary state $\ket{x}$ (input/query register).
2. A qubit in an arbitrary state $\ket{y}$ (output/target qubit).

**Goal:** 
Implement a quantum oracle which checks whether the input register is a palindrome, i.e., implements the function $f(x) = 1$ if $x$ is a palindrome, and 0 otherwise. A bit string is a palindrome if it equals its reverse, or, in other words, its first bit equals its last bit, its second bit equals its second-to-last bit, and so on.

For example, for $N = 3$ the input state $\ket{101}$ is a palindrome, and $\ket{001}$ is not.

Leave the qubits in the input register in the same state they started in.
Your solution should work on inputs in superposition, and not use any measurements.

## Solution Notes

For a basis state $\ket{x_0 ... x_{N-1}}$ to be a palindrome, the state of the first qubit $x_0$ has to be the same as that of the last qubit $x_{N-1}$, the state of the second qubit $x_1$ - the same as that of the second-to-last qubit $x_{N-2}$, and so on.
In other words, we need to compute XORs of pairs of qubits, and if all of these XORs are $0$, the basis state is a palindrome.

Recall that to compute XOR of the states of two qubits in-place, you can use a $CNOT$ gate with one of them as control and the other as target. After this, the state of the target qubit will be exactly the XOR:

$$CNOT \ket{a}\ket{b} = \ket{a}\ket{a \oplus b}$$

We can use this to calculate the XORs of $x_{N-1}$ and $x_0$ (stored in qubit `x[0]`), $x_{N-2}$ and $x_1$ (stored in qubit `x[1]`), and so on. Finally, to check that all XORs are $0$, we can use the library operation `ApplyControlledOnInt` to apply a controlled-on-zero $X$ gate with the qubits we used to calculate XORs as controls and the target qubit as the target.

Remember to uncompute the changes you did to the qubits of the input register. You can do this easily using the within-apply pattern that takes care of uncomputation automatically.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    operation Oracle_Palindrome (x : Qubit[], y : Qubit) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        let N = Length(x);
        within {
            for i in 0 .. N / 2 - 1 {
                CNOT(x[N - 1 - i], x[i]);
            }
        } apply {
            ApplyControlledOnInt(0, X, x[... N / 2 - 1], y);
        }
    }    
}
```
