# Is Bit String Periodic with Period P?

**Inputs:** 

1. $N$ qubits in an arbitrary state $\ket{x}$ (input/query register).
2. A qubit in an arbitrary state $\ket{y}$ (output/target qubit).
3. An integer $P$ such that $P < N$.

**Goal:** 
Implement a quantum oracle which checks whether the input register is periodic with period $P$, i.e., for all $j$ between $0$ and $N - P - 1$, inclusive, $x_j = x_{j+P}$.

For example, for $N = 3$ a bit string `[false, true, false]` is periodic with period 2.

Leave the qubits in the input register in the same state they started in.
Your solution should work on inputs in superposition, and not use any measurements.

## Solution Notes

This problem is similar to the previous one: in that problem you had to compare the states of the qubits in symmetrical positions, and in this one you have to compare the states of the qubits at a distance $P$ from each other.
For the basis state $\ket{x_0 ... x_{N-1}}$ to be periodic with period $P$, you need to check that the pairs of qubits $x_0$ and $x_P$, $x_1$ and $x_{P + 1}$, and so on are the same. 

We can use a similar approach to the solution as well: do the comparisons in-place using $CNOT$ gates. 

If you iterate through the pairs in order from left to right, starting with the pair $x_0$ and $x_P$, you'll need to make sure to store the XORs in the left qubit of the pair. When comparing the states of qubits $x_j$ and $x_{j + P}$, the right qubit $x_{j + P}$ might be involved in another comparison later, if the position $j + 2P$ is within the bit string, so you shouldn't modify its state in the earlier comparison. However, the qubit $x_j$ was already compared with the qubit $x_{j-P}$, so it's safe to modify its state now.

Same as in the previous task, we then check that all XORs are $0$ using controlled-on-zero $X$ gate (with the first $N-P$ qubits as controls), and finally uncompute any changes we did to the input register.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    operation Oracle_PeriodicGivenPeriod (x : Qubit[], y : Qubit, p : Int) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        let n = Length(x);
        within {
            for i in 0 .. n - p - 1 {
                CNOT(x[i + p], x[i]);
            }
        } apply {
            ApplyControlledOnInt(0, X, x[... n - p - 1], y);
        }
    }    
}
```
