# Is Bit String Periodic?

**Inputs:** 

1. $N$ qubits in an arbitrary state $\ket{x}$ (input/query register).
2. A qubit in an arbitrary state $\ket{y}$ (output/target qubit).

**Goal:** 
Implement a quantum oracle which checks whether the input register is periodic with any period, i.e., whether there exists a value $P < N$ such that for all $j$ between $0$ and $N - P - 1$, inclusive, $x_j = x_{j+P}$.

For example, for $N = 3$ a bit string `[false, true, false]` is periodic with period 2, so the bit string is periodic.

Leave the qubits in the input register in the same state they started in.
Your solution should work on inputs in superposition, and not use any measurements.

## Solution Notes

We need to check whether for any value of $P$ the bit string is periodic with period $P$. 
We can use the solution to the previous task as a building block to check periodicity for a specific $P$, but how do we build a complete solution out of these blocks?

You can express the function we're evaluating as "the bit string is periodic with period $1$" OR
"the bit string is periodic with period $2$" OR ... OR "the bit string is periodic with period $N − 1$".
Then, you have to allocate $N - 1$ auxiliary qubits and use them to store the evaluation results for the condition for each value of the period from $1$ to $N - 1$.

After this, you need to compute the OR of the states of these auxiliary qubits: if at least one of them is $1$, the bit string is periodic.
You can do this using the "Implement the OR Oracle" exercise in the Oracles kata, by checking whether the values of all auxiliary qubits are $0$ and then negating the result.

Finally, you have to uncompute the changes you did to the auxiliary qubits to return them to the $\ket{0}$ state before releasing them.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    operation Oracle_Periodic (x : Qubit[], y : Qubit) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        let N = Length(x);
        use aux = Qubit[N - 1];
        within {
            for P in 1 .. N - 1 {
                Oracle_PeriodicGivenPeriod(x, aux[P - 1], P);
            }
        } apply {
            ApplyControlledOnInt(0, X, aux, y);
            X(y);
        }
    }

    operation Oracle_PeriodicGivenPeriod (x : Qubit[], y : Qubit, p : Int) : Unit is Adj + Ctl {
        let n = Length(x);
        within {
            for i in 0 .. n - p - 1 {
                CNOT(x[i + p], x[i]);
            }
        } apply {
            ApplyControlledOnInt(0, X, x[... n - p - 1], y);
        }
    }   
}
```
