# Distinguish Four Pauli Unitaries

**Input:** An operation that implements a single-qubit unitary transformation:
either the identity ($I$ gate) or one of the Pauli gates ($X$, $Y$ or $Z$ gate).

**Output:** 
* 0 if the given operation is the $I$ gate,
* 1 if the given operation is the $X$ gate,
* 2 if the given operation is the $Y$ gate,
* 3 if the given operation is the $Z$ gate.

The operation will have Adjoint and Controlled variants defined.
You are allowed to apply the given operation and its adjoint/controlled variants exactly **once**.

## Solution Notes

This task is quite different from the previous tasks in this section; 
at the first glance it might seem impossible to distinguish four different unitaries (i.e., get two bits of information) with just one unitary application! 

However, since the unitaries were chosen carefully (and you're not limited in the number of measurements you can do), it is possible. 
The solution uses the Bell states: the four orthogonal states which you can prepare by starting with the first of them $\frac{1}{\sqrt2}(\ket{00} + \ket{11})$ and applying the gates $I$, $X$, $Z$ and $Y$, respectively, to the first qubit. 
Thus the solution becomes: prepare the $\frac{1}{\sqrt2}(\ket{00} + \ket{11})$ state, apply the unitary and measure the resulting state in Bell basis to figure out which of the Bell states it is. See the Distinguish Quantum States kata, task 'Distinguish Four Bell states' for the details on how to do that.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    operation DistinguishPaulis (unitary : (Qubit => Unit is Adj + Ctl)) : Int {
        // apply operation to the 1st qubit of a Bell state and measure in Bell basis
        use qs = Qubit[2];
        within {
            H(qs[0]);
            CNOT(qs[0], qs[1]);
        } apply {
            unitary(qs[0]);
        }

        // after this I -> 00, X -> 01, Y -> 11, Z -> 10
        let ind = MeasureInteger(qs);
        let returnValues = [0, 3, 1, 2];
        return returnValues[ind];
    }
}
```
