# Measurement in the |A〉, |B〉 Basis

**Inputs:**

1. Angle $\alpha$, in radians, represented as a `Double`.
1. A qubit in some unknown state.

**Output:** Implement a measurement in the $\{\ket A, \ket B\}$ basis. Same as in the previous exercise, $\ket{A} = \cos \alpha \ket{0} - i \sin \alpha \ket{1}$ and $\ket{B} = - i \sin \alpha \ket{0} + \cos \alpha \ket{1}$. Return `Zero` if the measurement outcome is $A$, and `One` if the outcome is $B$.
The state of the qubit after the measurement should correspond to the measurement result.

<details>
    <summary><strong>Need a hint?</strong></summary>
    <p>An $R_x$ rotation can be used to go from the computational basis $\{ \ket 0, \ket 1 \}$ to the $\{ \ket{A}, \ket{B} \}$ basis and vice versa.</p>
</details>

## Solution Notes

For this problem, we follow the procedure given in the "Measurements in Arbitrary Orthogonal Bases" section of the Kata.
As noted in the solution of the "Distinguishing Orthogonal States: 2" exercise, the gate $R_x(-\theta)$, with $\theta = 2\alpha$ transforms the $\ket A/\ket B$ states to the $\ket 0/\ket 1$ states:
$$R_x(-\theta) \ket A = \ket 0,$$
$$R_x(-\theta) \ket B = \ket 1.$$
Hence, we first apply $R_x(-\theta)$ to the qubit. Next, we measure in the computational basis using the `M` operation.
If the `M` operation returned `Zero`, we get measurement outcome $A$, and if it returned `One`, we get measurement outcome $B$.

After the measurement, we apply the inverse of the $R_x(-\theta)$ gate, which is the $R_x(\theta)$ gate.
The final rotation ensures that the state of the qubit is in the state corresponding to the measurement outcome.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    operation MeasureInABBasis(alpha : Double, q : Qubit) : Result {
        Rx(-2.0 * alpha, q);
        let measurementResult = M(q);
        Rx(2.0 * alpha, q);
        return measurementResult;
    }
}
```
