# Distinguish |+〉 and |-〉

**Input**: A qubit which is guaranteed to be in either the $\ket +$ state, or the $\ket -$ state.

**Output**: `true` if the qubit is in the $\ket -$ state, or `false` if it was in the $\ket +$ state. The state of the qubit at the end of the operation does not matter.

> To perform a single-qubit measurement in a certain Pauli basis using the `Measure` operation,
> you need to pass it two parameters: first, an array of one `Pauli` constant (`PauliX`, `PauliY` or `PauliZ`), and second, an array of one qubit you want to measure.

## Solution Notes

The input qubit is guaranteed to be either in basis state $\ket{+}$ or $\ket{-}$. This means that when measuring the qubit in the Pauli X basis, the measurement will report the input state without any doubt. (Recall that these states are eigenstates for the Pauli X matrix).

In Q# the operation `Measure` can be used to measure a qubit in Pauli basis of the user's choice. The operation returns a value of type `Result` and is `Zero` if the measured state corresponds to the eigenvalue $+1$, and `One` if it corresponds to the eigenvalue $-1$ of the Pauli operator.

Since the states $\ket +$ and $\ket -$ correspond to the eigenvalues $+1$ and $-1$ of the Pauli X operator, we can return the result of equality comparison between the measurement result and `One`.
Note that since `Measure` operation generally works with multiple qubits to perform multi-qubit measurements, it takes array parameters. To do a single-qubit measurement, you need to pass two arrays of one element, `[PauliX]` and `[q]`, rather than individual values.

Source: Solution.qs

```qsharp
namespace Kata {
    operation IsQubitMinus(q : Qubit) : Bool {
        return Measure([PauliX], [q]) == One;
    }
}
```
