# Measurements in Arbitrary Orthogonal Bases

It is possible to measure a qubit in orthogonal bases other than the Pauli bases. Suppose one wants to measure a qubit in an orthonormal basis $\ket {b_0}$ and $\ket {b_1}$. Let the state of the qubit be represented by the normalized vector $\ket \psi$. Then, one can always express the state in terms of the basis vectors $\ket{b_0}$ and $\ket{b_1}$, i.e., there exist complex numbers $c_0, c_1$, such that
$$
\ket \psi = c_0 \ket {b_0} + c_1 \ket {b_1}.
$$
The rule for obtaining the probabilities of measurement outcomes is exactly the same as that for the computational basis measurement. For a measurement in a $\{ b_0, b_1\}$ basis we get

- Outcome $b_0$ with probability $|c_0|^2$ and the post-measurement qubit state of $\ket {b_0}$
- Outcome $b_1$ with probability $|c_1|^2$ and the post-measurement qubit state of $\ket {b_1}$

This can be summarized in the following table:
<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Measurement outcome</th>
        <th>Probability of outcome</th>
        <th>State after measurement</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>$b_0$</td>
        <td>$|c_0|^2$</td>
        <td>$\ket{b_0}$</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>$b_1$</td>
        <td>$|c_1|^2$</td>
        <td>$\ket{b_1}$</td>
    </tr>
</table>

As before, the assumption of $\ket \psi$ being normalized is important, since it guarantees that the two probabilities add to $1$.

> As you may recall, a global phase is said to be hidden or unobservable.
This is explained by the fact that global phases have no impact on quantum measurements. For example, consider two isolated qubits which are in (normalized) states $\ket \psi$ and $e^{i\theta}\ket \psi$.
If both are measured in an orthogonal basis $\{ \ket{b_0},\ket{b_1}\}$, the probabilities of measuring $b_0$ or $b_1$ are identical in both cases, since $|\bra{b_i}\ket{\psi}|^2 = |\bra{b_i}e^{i\theta}\ket{\psi}|^2  $.
Similarly, for either qubit, if $b_i$ is the measurement outcome, the post-measurement state of the qubit is $\ket{b_i}$. Hence, the measurements are independent of the global phase $\theta$.

## Measurements as Projection Operations

Just as qubits are represented by vectors and quantum gates are represented by matrices, quantum measurements are represented by _orthogonal projection operators_. An orthogonal projection operator (sometimes referred to as _projector_) is a matrix $P$ which satisfies the following property:
$$
P^2 = P^\dagger = P.
$$
(As usual, the $\dagger$ symbol denotes conjugate transposition.)

As the name implies, orthogonal projection operators project the state of the qubit onto an orthogonal subspace. Using the ket-bra representation, one can represent a projection matrix in the Dirac notation.
For example, one may construct a projector onto the $\ket{0}$ subspace as:
$$
P = \ket 0 \bra 0 \equiv \begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 \end{bmatrix}.
$$

A measurement in an orthogonal basis $\{ \ket{b_0}, \ket{b_1}\}$ is described by a pair of projectors $P_0 = \ket{b_0}\bra{b_0}$ and $P_1 = \ket{b_1}\bra{b_1}$. Since $\ket{b_0}$ and $\ket{b_1}$ are orthogonal, their projectors are also orthogonal, i.e., $P_0 P_1 = P_1 P_0 = 0$. The rules for measurements in this basis can then be summarized as follows:

- Measuring a qubit in a state $\ket \psi$ is done by picking one of these projection operators at random.
- Projector $P_0$ is chosen with probability $|P_0 \ket{\psi}|^2$, and the projector $P_1$ is chosen with probability $|P_1\ket{\psi}|^2.$
- If projector $P_0$ is chosen, the post-measurement state of the qubit is given by
    $$
    \frac1{|P_0 \ket{\psi}|}P_0 \ket\psi,
    $$
    and similarly for $P_1$.

Although this formalism looks different from the previous sections, it is in fact equivalent. If $\ket \psi = c_0 \ket{b_0} + c_1 \ket{b_1}$, we have
$$
P_0 \ket \psi = c_0 \ket{b_0}, \text{so that } | P_0\ket \psi| = c_0,
$$
and similarly,
$$
P_1 \ket \psi = c_1 \ket{b_1}, \text{so that } |P_1\ket \psi| = c_1.
$$

Thus, as before, the probability of measuring $b_0$ is $|P_0\ket\psi|^2 = |c_0|^2$, and the probability of measuring $b_1$ is $|P_1\ket\psi|^2 = |c_1|^2$. Similarly, one can verify that the post-measurement outcomes are also $\ket{b_0}$ and $\ket{b_1}$, respectively (up to unobservable global phases).

Although the projector formalism for single-qubit systems may seem superfluous, its importance will become clear later, when we consider measurements for multi-qubit systems.

## Arbitrary Basis Measurements Implementation

In the previous section, we discussed measurements in Pauli bases using the built-in `Measure` operation. We will now show that it is always possible to measure a qubit in any orthogonal basis using just unitary rotation matrices and computation basis measurements.

Consider a state $ \ket \psi = c_0 \ket {b_0} + c_1 \ket {b_1} $ which we would like to measure in an orthonormal basis $\{ \ket{b_0}, \ket{b_1}\}$. First, we construct the following unitary matrix:
$$
U = \ket{0} \bra{b_0} + \ket{1} \bra{b_1}
$$

The conjugate transpose of this unitary is the operator
$$
U^\dagger = \ket{b_0} \bra{0} + \ket{b_1} \bra{1}
$$

(One may verify that $U$ is indeed a unitary matrix, by checking that $U^\dagger U = U U^\dagger = I$)

Note that the effect of these matrices on the two bases is the following:
$$U\ket{b_0} = \ket{0}$$
$$U\ket{b_1} = \ket{1}$$
$$U^\dagger \ket{0} = \ket{b_0}$$
$$U^\dagger \ket{1} = \ket{b_1}$$

In order to implement a measurement in the $\{ \ket{b_0}, \ket{b_1} \}$ basis, we do the following:

1. Apply $U$ to $\ket \psi$.  
   The resulting state is $U\ket \psi = c_0 \ket 0 + c_1 \ket 1 $.
2. Measure the state $U\ket{\psi}$ in the computational basis.  
   The outcomes $0$ and $1$ occur with probabilities $|c_0|^2$ and $|c_1|^2$.
3. Apply $U^\dagger$ to the post-measurement state.  
   This transforms the states $\ket 0$ and $\ket 1$ to the states $\ket{b_0}$ and $\ket{b_1}$, respectively.

Thus, $b_0$ and $b_1$ are measured with probabilities $|c_0|^2$ and $|c_1|^2$, respectively, with the end state being $\ket{b_0}$ and $\ket{b_1}$ - which is exactly the measurement we want to implement.

This procedure can be used to distinguish arbitrary orthogonal states as well, as will become clear from the following exercises.

## 🔎 Analyze

**The outcome probabilities for a measurement in a specified basis**

1. What are the outcome probabilities of measuring a qubit in the $\ket{0}$ state in the Pauli X basis, i.e., the $\{ \ket +, \ket -\}$ basis?

2. What are the outcome probabilities of measuring a qubit in the $0.6\ket{0} + 0.8 \ket{1}$ state in the Pauli Y basis, i.e., the $\{ \ket i, \ket{-i}\}$ basis?

<details>
<summary><b>Solution</b></summary>

1. To find the probabilities of measuring $+$ and $-$, we first need to express the state $\ket 0$ in terms of $\ket +$ and $\ket -$. Using the fact that $\ket{\pm} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}  (\ket{0} \pm \ket{1})$, we can show that
    $$
    \ket 0 = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \ket{+} + \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \ket{-}.
    $$
    Thus, the probability of measuring $+$ is $|\frac1{\sqrt2}|^2 = 0.5$, and similarly, the probability of measuring $-$ is $0.5$.

2. Similar to the first part, we need to express the state $\ket \psi = 0.6 \ket 0 + 0.8 \ket 1$ in the $\ket{\pm i}$ basis. For this calculation, we use the projection matrix approach.

    First, we recall that the states $\ket{\pm i}$ are given by
    $$
    \ket{\pm i} = \frac1{\sqrt2} (\ket 0 \pm i \ket 1).
    $$

    We can now construct the two projectors $P_{\pm i}$ onto states $\ket {\pm i}$ as follows:
    $$P_{i} = \ket{i}\bra{i} = \frac{1}{2} \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ i \end{bmatrix} \begin{bmatrix} 1 & -i \end{bmatrix} = \frac{1}{2} \begin{bmatrix}1 & -i \\ i & 1 \end{bmatrix},$$
    $$P_{-i} = \ket{-i}\bra{-i} = \frac{1}{2} \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ -i \end{bmatrix} \begin{bmatrix} 1 & i \end{bmatrix} = \frac{1}{2} \begin{bmatrix}1 & i \\ -i & 1 \end{bmatrix}.$$

    Recalling that the probabilities of measuring $\pm i$ are equal to the norm of the vectors $P_{\pm i}\ket \psi$, we now apply $P_{\pm i}$ to $\ket \psi$:
    $$P_{+i} \ket \psi = \frac{1}{2} \begin{bmatrix}1 & -i \\ i & 1\end{bmatrix} \begin{bmatrix} 0.6 \\ 0.8 \end{bmatrix} = \frac{1}{2} \begin{bmatrix} 0.6 - 0.8i \\ 0.8 + 0.6i \end{bmatrix},$$
    $$P_{-i} \ket \psi = \frac{1}{2} \begin{bmatrix}1 & i \\ -i & 1\end{bmatrix} \begin{bmatrix} 0.6 \\ 0.8 \end{bmatrix} = \frac{1}{2} \begin{bmatrix} 0.6 + 0.8i \\ 0.8 - 0.6i \end{bmatrix}.$$

    Hence, the probabilities of measuring $\pm i$, which we denote by $p(\pm i)$, are:
    $$p(+i) = |P_{+i} \ket \psi|^2 = \frac{1}{4}(|0.6 - 0.8i|^2 + |0.8 + 0.6i|^2) = \frac{1}{2},$$
    $$p(-i) = |P_{-i} \ket \psi|^2 = \frac{1}{4}(|0.6 + 0.8i|^2 + |0.8 - 0.6i|^2) = \frac{1}{2}.$$

</details>
